1.Belladonna-Child  suffers  from  otitis  media  which  may  cause  delirium and he often cries out in sleep; throbbing and beating pain deep in ear, synchronous  with  heart  beat.Inflamed  red  ear  drum, often  combined  with  reddened  throat,  cold  extremities,  high fever,  throbbing  pains  in  the  ears. Other  symptoms  may  be sudden,  violent  effects,  dryness,  bright  redness,  burning  heat, throbbing   pains, appear   and   disappear   suddenly.Worse: afternoon(3  p.m.),  drafts,  washing  head, after  taking  cold. Better: light covering, rest in bed. ]
2.Chamomilla-Otalgia  with  soreness,  swelling  and  heat,  unbearable   paindriving   the   child   frantic. Ears   feels   stopped.   Ringing   in ears.Worse: heat,  anger,  open  air,  wind  and night.  Better: being carried, warm wet weather. Childis  in  state  of whining  restlessness,  can  only  be  quieted when     carried     about     and     petted     constantly.     Irritable, quarrelsome, nothing pleases. Asks for something then rejects it. Oversensitive  to  all  external  impressions.One  cheek  red, other pale, hot, thirsty for cold drinks.]
3.Pulsatill anigricans-Indicated  when  earache  comes  on  in  the  middle  of  the  night. External ear and meatus is red, decreased hearingas if the ear were  stuffed.  Earache  following  a  cold. Worse,at  night,  warm room,  lying  on  painless  side. Better:  open  air,  motion,  cold applications. Childis   mild,   gentle,   affectionate,   yieldingwithweeping disposition. Children   like   fuss   and   caresses.   Hot   patient, thirstless with great dryness of mouth. It  isalsoindicated  in  the  chronic  phase  when  there  are  thick, profuse, yellow or yellowish-green, bland discharges worse in evening and warm room, better from openair.]
4.Sulphur-Child comes with much itching in ears, changing to pain when attempting  to  scratch  them;  dirty  offensive,  sometimes  sour smelling  pus  flowing  from  ears;  children  averse  to  having them   washed. Bad   effects   from   the   suppression   of   an otorrhœa. Sharp pain, worse on left side. Earache with painful ringing  in  the  ears. Worse:from  heat, atmosphericchanges. Better:by open air. Childis  nervous,  quick  tempered, emotionally  irritable  and sluggish,Hot  patient, restless  sleep,  thirsty  for  cold  drinks, worse 5 A.M.It is also indicated in the chronic phases.]
5.Calcarea Carbonica-Child  comes  with  throbbing,  ear  pain  with  decreased  hearing and  heat  in  the  ears  with  or  without  enlarged  cervical  lymph nodes.  Purulent  discharge  from  the  ears.  Profuse, often sour discharges. Childis  timid, obstinate, and  fearful,  shy, slow  andsluggish. Chilly  patient,  takes  cold  easily.  Fat,fair, flabby;large  head, distended   abdomen;   pale,   weak,   easily   tired; head sweatsprofusely   while   sleeping;   tendency   to   lymphatic   glandularenlargement;  sour  smelling  discharges;  longing  for  fresh  air; desires  for  eggs  and  indigestible  things;  aversion  to  meat  and milk. Worse:from cold in   every   form, getting wet,   wet weather.Better:dry  climate,  lying  on  painful  side. It  is also indicated in the chronic phase.]
6.Lycopodium clavatum-Pain in earstarts on the right side first, then on the left. Worse: warm   room,   from   heat,hot   air,   hot   bed, wind, warm applications, 4-8  p.m. Better:on  getting  cold,  by  motion,  from being uncovered. Child is dominant, cranky, lacksself-confidence, precocious.]
7.Mercurius solubilis-Shooting   pains   in   ears, which   feels   stopped   and   swollen. Stiches  deep  in  the  ears  with  burning.    Ringing  and  roaring  in the ears. Worse: warmth of bed; at night, wet, damp weather, lying on right side, during perspiration.Childhas    weak    memory,    fearful,    shy,    hurried,    violent, impulsive,  nervous,  irresolute.  Tongue  flabby  with  imprint  of teeth, profuse offensive perspiration, increased salivation. It isalso indicated in the chronic phase.]
8.Siliceaterra-Otorrhœa with great sensitiveness to cold air. If progress is protracted,  purulent  otorrhoea  occurs  with  mild  pain  in  the ear(s),  generally  having  no  fever.  Discharges  are  foetid  and thin.  May  be  associated  with  caries  of  mastoid. Worse:  cold changes:air,drafts, uncovering, bathing,when  the  moon  is  at the full. Better: warmwraps to head. Childis obstinate, nervous, oversensitive, irritable and fearful. Extremely  chilly,  profuse  offensive  discharges.  Sweat  profuse especially on feet, easy suppuration, and glandular affinity.It is also indicated in the chronic phase.]
9.Hepar sulphuriscalcareum-Child  has darting  and shootings  pain in  the  ears.  Deafness, hearing  returns  with  a  loud  report  or  on blowing  the  nose. Worse: from cold, dry air in winter, on least uncovering, touch and noise, lying on painful side,night. Better: from heat, warm wraps   to   headand   indamp   weather,   exposure   to   cold. Discharge  of  pus  from  the  ears,  which  is  sometimes  fetid. Secretions  are  Profuse;  foul;like  old  cheese  and  sour.  Patient in  general chilly and oversensitive;to  cold,  pain  and touch; easily   faints   due   to   pain.   Patient   is   excessively   irritable, touchy,mentally and physically to pain and cold. It isalso indicated in the chronic phase.]
10.Arsenicum album-Morning  vomiting  of  habitual  drunkards;  chronic  gastric irritability;  heartburn,  as  if  epigastrium  and  stomach  were being  made  raw  by  an  acrid  corroding  substance;  fruitless retching,  or  retching  and  vomiting;  indescribable  nausea, loathing and weakness  satiety of life and still fear of death, will not be alone; fear of ghosts, thieves, with desire to hide one’s self, trembling of limbs. Is morally perfectly upset, with cravings for acids and coffee, which relieve.It is   palliative   in   cancerous   affections   of uterus,  mammae,  and  lips.Burning  and  stinging  pains. Debility, exhaustion, restlessness.Anxiety,   sadness   and   fear   of   death.   Symptoms   are aggravated at midnight, from cold and are better from heat and  warm  drinks.  Predominantly  left  sided  affections  and thermally patient is chilly. Suitable  for  persons with  rapid  weakness  and emaciation.  Polyuria  with  bulimy  and increased thirst  for  small  quantity of  water  at  short  intervals. Burning  all  over  the  body  due  to acute  or  chronic  pathology  of  nerves  and  blood  vessels  >  by warm   application;Great   exhaustion after   slight   exertion. Paleness of skin; disposition to gangreneand skin affections.Anxiety with fear of death; Restlessness with tossingabout in agony. Fastidious  and  oversensitive  patients. Chilly  patient but   wants   head   uncovered.Mid-dayandmid-nightand periodical aggravation. Worse  cold:  food,  drinks,  air,  damp weather. Better: hot applications, warm drinks, wrapping up, in company and while sweating.]
11.Lycopodium clavatum-Patients withchronic alcoholismsuffer from dropsy, ascites in  liver  disease;  Failing  brain-power  and  constant  fear  of breaking  down  under  stress.  There  is great  weakness  of digestion,eating   ever   so   little   creates   fullness.   These patients  are  intellectually  keen  but  physically  weak,  their ailments gradually developing, functional power weakening,  symptoms  worse   from  4-8pm,   usually  right sided  complaints  or  symptoms  go  from  right  to  left  with desire warm food, drinks, and sweets.]
12.Lachesis mutus-Delirium tremens with visions of snakes and other hideous objects,  believes  he  is  not  at  home,  fears  robbers  in  the house,  undertakes  many  things  and  perseveres  in  nothing, sensation in throat as if choking, and springing out of sleep suddenly  as  if  from  adream;  cannot  bear  pressure  around throat    or    waist;    loquacious    with    mocking    jealousy. Inclination  to  vomit,  with  sensation  of illness  arousing  him from  a  sound  sleep,  vomits  ingesta,  bile,  mucus,  especially mornings.    Diarrhea    of    drunkards,    with    languor    and exhaustion,  very  excessive  in  hot  weather,  and  with  large haemorrhoids  which  protrude  aft  each  pappy,  offensive stool, with constriction of sphincter and continued desire to evacuate,  or  alternate  constipation  with  ineffectual  desire for   stool   and   pulsating   headache.   Enlarged   liver   with tendency  to  formation  of  hepatic  abscess;  spleen  diseased. Ascites,   urine   blackish,   oedematous   parts   dark,   bluish_black; craves brandy and > by coffee. Hot  patient;  thin  and  emaciated;  hemorrhagic  diathesis; greatsensitiveness  to  touch;  hot  flushes  and  perspiration; all  complaints worseafter  sleep;  loquacious,  jumps  from one idea to another, jealous, suspicious, indolent.]
13.Nux vomica-Delirium    tremens,    with    over    sensitiveness;    nervous excitability  and  malicious  vehemence;  every  little  noise frightens; anxious and beside himself; stupefaction as from nightly    reveling;    intoxication    from    funkiness    of    the previous  day,  with  vanishing  of  sight  and  hearing;  worse after  dinner  and  in  the  sun;  hemicrania  after  intoxication, with  sensation  as  if  a  nail  had  been  driven  into  the  brain; gastric  derangement;  constipation  or  diarrhea;  tremor  of the  limbs;  debility  ;  convulsions  from  indigestion;  at  night spring up delirious; has frightful visons. Especially adapted to chilly   patient;   thin,   dark   complexion;   spare,   quick, active;prone  to  indigestion  and  hemorrhoids;  sedentary lifestyle;  tongue  coated  yellowish  in  the  posterior  part; desire for stimulants; nervous disposition; oversensitive to external  impressions, to  noise,  odors,  light  or  music etc.; zealous   and   irritable,   impatient,   spiteful   with   violent action; ardentnature.]
14.Sulphur-Dropsy  and  other  affections  of  drunkards,  especially  when they  indulge  in  the  abuse  of  coffee;  longing  for  alcoholic drinks;  fullness  in  stomach  after  eating  or  drinking  ever  so little;  cannot  digest  milk  and  vomits  it  up  immediately, mixed with half_digested, sour food. Hot  patient;  kicks  off  the  cloth  at  night;  dirty,  filthy,  does not   want   to   be   washed;   lean,   thin,   stoop-shouldered children  who  walk  and  sit  stooping;  red  orifices;  desires sweets;  when  the  best  selected  remedy  fails  to  improve; restless, quick tempered.]
15.Syphilinum-This   medicine   is   of   value   in   patients   with   history   of alcoholism   in   family.There   is   hereditary   craving   for alcohol.   Tendency   to   heavy   drinking;   alcoholism.   Utter prostration and debility in morning. Terrible dread of night on    account    of    mental    and    physical    exhaustion    on awakening;   it   is   intolerable,   death   is   preferable.   Loses remembrance  of  passing  occurrences,  names,  dates,  etc., while  all  occurrences  previous  to  inception  of  disease  are remembered  as  distinctly  as  ever. Hopeless;despairs  of recovery. All   symptoms   are   worse    at   night.Absolute sleeplessness.  Serrated  and irregular  teeth;  scanty  hair; successive    abscesses,    easy    prostration,    night    terror, destructive tendency.]
16.Sulphuricum acidum-Pyrosis, morning vomiting, inappetency, trembling, especially  mornings.  Drunkard  on  his  last  legs  looks  pale, shriveled  and  old,stomach  will  not  tolerate  any  food,  he cannot  even  take  a  sip  of  water  unless  it  contains  whisky; liver   enlarged,   with   dry   stomach-cough;   hemorrhoids; offensive watery diarrhea; cross and irritable.]
17.Ranunculus bulbosus-One  of  our  most  effective  agents  for  the  removal  of  bad effects   from  the   abuse   of   alcoholic   beverages;   at   the beginning   of   delirium   tremens,   with   talkative   mania; unusual  exertion  and  powerful  efforts  to  escape  from  the bed;  convulsions  of  the  facial  and  cervical  muscles;  risussardonicus;stitches   in   the   liver;   long-lasting   gastralgia; burning,  changing  to  dull  pressure,  with  nausea;  vertigo, with danger of falling when going from warm room into the open air; confusion of the head as if intoxicated.]
18.Hyoscy amusniger-Complaints of ADHD frombad effects of fright, jealousy or rage.Patient  of  sanguine  temperament;  who  are  irritable,  nervous, and   hysterical,   malicious,   jealous,   irritable,   aggressive   with many  bewildering  aberrations  (deviations).The  child  may  have poor   control   over   his   impulses,   talking,   joking,   throwing tantrums at the most inappropriate times. Mania, erotic, exposes genitals,   singing, sillywith   comical   acts,   plays   with   fingers, talking,  babbling, and  inclined  to  laugh  at  everything. Active mania alternating with, or ending with depressive narcosis. There are  often  tremendous  difficulties  with  other  siblings;  jealousy, provoking   of   fights   and   abuse.   Quarreling   Suspicious,   fears being  alone,  being  pursued  etc.  Child  has  tendency  to  hurt  self when  irritated.  Speaks  each  word  louder.  In  most,  not  all  cases, there  is  precocious  sexual  behavior;  masturbation,  secretive sexual play with other children, exhibitionism, touches genitals.Child starts  up  frightened  from  sleep,  sobs  and  cries  without waking.Symptoms <from touch, mental affections, jealousy.]
19.Stramonium-Adaptedto    plethoric    children    whose    face    is    hot,    red, circumscribed  redness  of  cheeks,  distorted,  havingstammering, has to exert before can utter a word, after a strong fright such as car accident, a sexual abuse, witnessing of act of violence in the environment.   The   precipitating   events   is   often   followed   by nightmare  and  eventually  development  of  rage.  The  rage  is uncontrollable  and  impulsive,  without  malicious  forethought. Distorts face, pupils dilate when child is reprimanded (scolded) with expression of terror. Child is fearful, dreads darkness, clings to mother due to fear, desires light and company; worse in dark and solitude.  Mood of child rapidly changes from joy to sadness, raving mania with cursing and praying. Child is sleepy but can’t sleep. He weepsin  dreams  and awakes in   fearor   screaming.   Painlessness   of   general   condition   is characteristics of the stramonium child.Symptoms  <  fromfright, dark, bright  shiny  objects, after  sleep, >in company, from bright light.]
20.Tarentula hispanica-Adapted  to  fiery  red,  terror  expression  face  children  who  are hurried,  restless,  could  not  keep  quiet  in  any  position;  impulse to  walk,  must  keep  in  motion,  though  walking  <allcomplaints. Festination, fidgety, constant  movement  of  legs,  arms  in  child withincessant motion and inability of do anything, keeps hands busy,  picks  fingers.  Child  gets  irritated  from  least  excitement which is followed by languid sadness. Child lacks control, erraticand moods suddenly changes, from nervous laughter to scream, fancies    or    strength.    Hysteria,    hateful,    clever,    crafty,    and destructive, moral  relaxation,kleptomania.  Averse  to  company, but     wants     someone     present.     Child     is     ungrateful     and discontented,  angry  despair.  There  is  marked  love  for  music, which  excites  and  calms  him,  and  dancing,  even  wild  dancing. This child has destructive nature, breaks, tears, throws things.Complaint  <from   motion,  seeing  others  in  trouble,  noise,  > music.]
21.Tuberculinum-Adapted   to   children   who   are   very   sensitive   physically   and mentally,  activeand  intelligent,  with  irritable,  fretful,  peevish, taciturn,    sulky,    naturally    of    sweet    disposition,    now    on borderline of insanity. The child is unable to remain long in one place,  is  loud  and  very  demanding  and  capricious.  Sensitive, every  trifles  irritates,  <awaking.  Parents  tell  that  the  child  is coldly and deliberately destructive and malicious, obstinate and disobedient. Fits of temper, and breaks his mother’s favorite vase  right  in  front  of  her  if  contraindicated.    desire  to  use  foul language,   curse   and   swear,   great   anger,   even   violence   and tendency  to  strike  others.  He  seems  completely  indifferent  to punishment or reprimand. Child is confused, dissatisfied, always wants a change, symptoms constantly changing, reckless. Fear of dogs, animal especially.Tuberculinum  child  has  contradictory  characteristics  of  mania and    melancholia,    insomnia    and    spoor    with    rapid    and pronounced  emaciation  and  takes  cold  easily. Childcraves  cold milkand bed wetting is common problem of the child. Complaint <close   room, motion,   music,   mental   excitement, thinking, after sleep> open air.]
22.Veratrum album-A  Veratrumlbum  child  is   curious  and  almost  adult  level   in conceptual   ability   who   is   nervous   sanguine   temperament, cannot  bear  to  be  alone,  yet  persistently  refuse  talking  and brood  indifference.  The  inner  frustration  leads  to  disobedience and  behavior  problems.  There  is  great  restlessness  in  the  child which  is  expressed  by  senseless,  repetitive  behavior  such  as stacking  things,  cutting  paper  into  ever  smaller  bits.  He  is  so restless  he  cannot  sit  down  to  eat  but  instead  must  be  moving constantly.  Acute  violent  mania  alternated  with  silence  and refusal  to  talk,  desire  to  cut  and  tear,  insanity,  shrieks,  curses, howling    all    night,    remorse    (regret),Coprophagia.    Aimless wandering from home.Child craves acid or refreshing things, icy water, and sour things. Awakes    at    night    trembling    from    fright. There    is    cold perspiration  on  forehead  with  nearly  all  complaints.  This  child may be extremely disconnected, or also hard and tough.Symptoms <from fright, least motion, night,>walking about.]
23.Lycopodium clavatum-Many ofthe children are angry, bossy and rude to patients who are too “permissive” as a result of fright, anger, mortification, or vexation   with   reserved   displeasure.   The   parents   are   often perplexed  to  find  that  at  school  the  child  gets  good  conduct sores  because  this  bullying  attitude  is  not  tolerated.  He  has bullying,  domineering,  arrogant  behavior  to  family  and  those with  less  authority,  obsequious  to  superiors.  A  Lycopodium child is thin, withered, and unhealthy, looks older than age, head is overly large forhis body, dreads of men, solitude, fear of being alone,  headstrong  and  haughty  when  sick.  Child  is  peevish  and cross   on   waking;   kick   and   scream;   easily   angered;   cannot endure  opposition  or  contradiction,  little  things  annoy;  seeks disputes;  disobedience. Child  is  hateful,  cranky,  reserved  and despair. He has weak memory, confused thoughts, and averse to understand new things, difficult to study new lessons or do new assignment,  cannot  bear  to  see  anything  new. Makes mistake  in writing especially letters asof a mirror image, misplacing words, can’t think, miscalls or omit words and, cannot read what he writes. Child  has  constant  satiety,  good  appetite  but  few  mouthfuls  fill up to the throat but wakes at night feeling hungry. Mouth is dry without thirst. Mentally active but grows weaker.Complaints <4-8 Pm, >motion.]
24.Medorrhinum-Adapted  to  children  who  are  dwarf  and  stunted,  fears  dark, having     weak     memory,     excessive     aggressive     withintense restlessness and fidelity of legs and feet. Child is in a great hurry, when  doing  anything  is  in  such  a  hurry  she  gets  fatigued.  He may  have  violent  temper  tantrums,  kick  or  strike  parents,  and fights  with  other  children.  Like  adult  child  often  has  extremely passionate  nature.  Child  is  sensitive  and  may  withdraw  from parents  and  family  because  of  emotional  shocks.  There  is  often excessive   attachment   to   animals   and   also   cruel   behavior towards  animals.  Difficult  concentration,  nervous. Weakness  of memory;  cannot  remember  names,  words  or  initial  letters;  has to ask name of most intimate friend; even forgets his own name. Cannot  spell  correctly;  wonders  how  a  well-known  name  is spelled.  Constantly  loses  the  thread  of  conversation.  Child  is extremely   sensitive;   starts   at   the   least   sound,   impatient; peevish,  irritated  at  trifles;  cross  during  the  day,  exhilarated  at night.    Child  is  always  sleepy,  wants  burning  hands  and  feet covered  and  fanned.  Symptoms<when  thinking  of  them,  touch, close room, >fresh air.]
25.Cinamaritima-Adapted  to  children  with  dark hair,  Ill-humored,  cannot  be quiet,  very  capricious,  cross,  wants  to  be  carried,  but  carrying gives  no  relief.  The  typical  child  is  irritable  in  the  extreme, perhaps more so than Chamomilla. He may even strike or often pinch   or   scratch   parents   when   frustrated.   Child   may   be precocious  and  hard;  he  cannot  be  reprimanded  and  will  not tolerate    parental    authority.    Patient    is    ugly,    moody    and dissatisfied.  Child  does  not  want  to  be  touched  or  bear  to  come near anyone and averse to caress; child desires many things; but rejects everything when offered.Patient is restless in sleep; Starts and screams during sleep.Complaints < from vexation(annoyance), when angry, looked at, >by motion.]
26.Chamomilla-Whenever  a  case  is  accompanied  by  great  irritability  and  anger (or   if   the   complaint   is   initiated   by   anger),   must   consider Chamomilla.  Complaints  of  ADHD  in  children  from  anger  and vexation  with  one  cheek  red  and  hot,  other  pale  and  cold, nervous,  oversensitive  to  pain  and  angry,  accusatory  ,excitable temperament.   Child Peevish,irritable   ,even   strike   or   kick   at parent   (or   doctor),   snappish,   cross,   spiteful,   quarrelsome, exceedingly fretful,  answers  peevishly,  uncivil,  cannot  return  a civil  answer,  quiet  onlywhen  carried,  cries  angrily  if  put  down and  parents  must  walk  up  and  down  to  quiet  him.  Child  is inconsolable,   impatient,   whining   restless,   piteous   moaning because he cannot have what he wants many things, capricious; demands  then  throws  it  away  (often  atsomeone)  and  becomes angry when refused, or when offered, “too ugly to love”. Cannot endure  anyone  near  him;  cannot  bear  to  be  spoken  to;  shies angrily away from being touched. Averse to touch or talk, always complaining.A child without mental calmness contraindicates Chamomilla. Child weeps during sleep and frightened from dreams.  Complaints < from anger, at night, >from being carried.]
27.Pulsatillanigricans-Indicated  in  cases  of  prostate  enlargement  with pain  and tenesmus  in  urinating,  worse  lying  on  back.Useful  in  acute prostatitis. After micturition,spasmodic pains in the neck of the  bladder,  extending  to  pelvis  and  thighs. Involuntary micturition   at   night,   while   coughing   or   passing   flatus. Prostatic troubles with small and flattened feces.Hot patient; marked changeability; thirstlessness with great dryness  of  mouth. Desire  for  cheese,  pungent things,  highly seasoned   food;   aversion   to   fat,warm   foods   and   drinks;tongue  coated  yellow  or  whitish; worse  towards  evening and  in  the  warm  room,always  better  in  open  air, by  slow, gentle  motionand  cold  applications.  Desirecompany,  mild, gentle, affectionate, yielding, weeping disposition.]
28.Conium maculatum-Useful  in  enlargement  and  induration  of  prostate  which causes   intermittent   urination   in   old   people   and   much difficulty  in  voiding  urine.  Urine  flows  and  stops;  pressure on  the  bladder,flow  of  urine  attended  with  violent  stitches; worse when walking, better when sitting, standing.Frequent,  and  sometimesinvoluntary  emission  of urine at night.Progressivedebility,  weakness  of  body  and  mind, Indolent, indifferent,  easily  overstrained,  shy  and  fear  being  alone. There    is    early    senility,hasty,    clumsy    movements    and trembling.Cancerous  and  scrofulous  persons  with  enlarged glands;  rigid  muscular  fiber.Chilly;  perspire  during  sleep and desire salt.]
29.Sabal serrulata-Of unquestioned value in prostatic enlargement and urinary difficulties. Cystitiswith prostatic hypertrophy. Discharge of prostatic   fluid   with   enlargement   of   the   gland. Difficult urination and smarting and burning in urethra.Patient  is  despondent,  irritable,  sympathy  seems  to  anger him, apathy  and  indifference,  general  and  sexual  debility, atrophy  of  testes  and  loss  of  sexual  power, fear  of  going  to sleep.]
30.Calcarea carbonica-Useful   in   cases   where   symptoms   of   irritable   bladder predominate.    Stitching    cutting    pain    in    urethra    with ineffectual  desire  to  urinate.  Painful  urination,  urine  with peculiar  fetidodor  but  usually  clear  with  white  sediment, bloody. Indicated  in  torpid,  fair,  flabby,  anaemic  persons  with large head,   distended   abdomenand tendency   to   lymphatic glandular    enlargement; fearful,    shy,    timid,    slow    and sluggish; who are chilly andtake cold easily; sweat profusely on  headwhilesleeping  or  mostly  on  back  of  head  and  neck, or   chest   and   upper   part   of   body;have   sour   smelling discharges;  longing  for  fresh  air,  cold  sweaty  extremities, desire  for  eggs,  sweetsand  aversion  to  meatand  milk.  Feel better in every way when constipated.]
31.Baryta carbonica-Suitable  in  diseases  of  old  men, with  enlarged  prostate  and indurated testes. Urgent inclination to pass urine; which can hardly be retained.Renewed desire after urinating, followed by  dribbling  when  walking.Everytime  patient  urinates,  his piles come down.Burning in urethra while urinating.Well  indicated  in  people  who  are  mentally  and  physically dwarfish;   timid,   weary   and   lack   self-confidence.   These people avoid strangers andthinking of their own complaints makesthem  worse.  They  are  greatly  sensitive  to  cold,  have offensive foot-sweat and are better in open air.]
32.Chimaphila umbellata-Owing to its property of increasing the renal secretion,indicatedin     prostate     enlargement     showing symptoms of acute prostatitis, with retention of urine and a feeling  of  a  ball  in  perineum  when  sitting;from sitting  on cold  stones  or  pavements.   Scanty  urine,  loaded  with  ropyor  muco-purulent, sediment. Burning  and  scalding  during micturition,  and  straining  afterwards.Unable  to urinate without  standing  with  feet  wide  apart  and  body  inclined forward. Suitable for persons who are nervous, cannot bear anything, hot,  irritable,  restless,  melancholic;  have  a  faint  feeling  and are weak.]
33.Thuja occidentalis-The  remedy  acts  vigorously  on  the  genito-urinary  tract. Indicated  in  prostatic  enlargement  with pain  and  burning felt near neck of bladder, with frequent and urgent desire to urinate. Must  urinate  many  a  times  before  the  bladder  is emptied. Sensation  as  ofurine  trickling  in  urethraafter urinating; severe cutting afterurination. Chilly patient;with  illusions  &fixed  ideas.  These  persons suffer   from   ill-effects   of   vaccination;predominantlyleft sided  complaints;  unhealthy  skin  with  tendency  for  warty growths;   sycotic   pains,   worse   at   rest,   warmth &   damphumid  atmosphere  and  better  in  dry  weather;  oily/  greasy sweat,face & stool; perspiration on uncovered parts. ]
34.Ferrum picricum-Indicated    in hypertrophyof    the    prostate; frequent micturition   at   night,   with   full   feeling   and   pressure   in rectum. Smarting at neck of bladder and penis. Retention of urine. It  is  considered  to  complete  the  action  of  other  medicines.Acts  best  in  dark-haired  patients,  bilious  looking,  plethoric, with    sensitive    livers;    warts    and    epithelial    growths. Aggravation     from     fatigue     is     a     leading     indication: overpowering effects of fatigue.]  
35.Sulphur-The  remedy  is  indicated  in  painful  ineffectual  efforts  to urinate,  with  retention. Frequent  micturition,  especially  at night.Burning  in  urethra  during  micturition,  lasts  long after.  Mucus  and  pus  in  urine;parts  sore  over  which  it passes.Hot patient; kicks off the cloth at night; dirty, filthy, does not want  to  be  washed;  lean,  thin,  stoop-shouldered patientwho walk and sit stooping; prone to skin affections, venous congestions;  especially  of  portal  system;  have  a  very  weak and faint feeling about 11 a.m. and must have something to eat; desires  sweets; have  burning  heat  of  palms  and  soles especially  at  night; aversion  to  being  washed;  worse  from standing,  at  night; when  the  best  selected  remedy  fails  to improve; restless, quick tempered. ]
36.Lycopodium clavatum-The   remedy   finds   its   usefulness   in hypertrophy   of   the prostate  when  there  is  pain  in  back  before  urinating  which ceases  after  flow;flow  of  urine slow,  must  strain. Polyuria during the night.Heavy red sediment in urine. Adapted to persons suffering from deep-seated, progressive,  chronic  diseaseswho  are  intellectually  keen but physically weak, dominating, avaricious, greedy, miserlyand lack   self-confidence. They   have   mostly   right   sided complaints    (or    symptoms    shift    from    right    toleft); emaciation  of  the  upper  part  of  the  body  &  semi-dropsical lower   part;   pale   complexion,   dirty,   sallow   with   deep furrows;  look  prematurely  old  and  are  predisposed  to  lung and  hepatic  affections.  They have  a  tendency  forflatulent dyspepsia;worse  from4  to  8  pm,lack  of  vital  heat  and desire warm food,drinks & sweets. ]
37.Condurango-The remedy can be used in cancers originating in epithelial structures  especially  epithelioma,  and  scirrhus.  Rhagades at  muco-cutaneous  orifices.  Pains  are  cutting,  stinging, burning, tingling, constrictive and piercing. In  cancer  of tongue, “a painful crack in the right corner of the mouth" is key note  symptom. Slight pain in left half of tongue. Small painful pustule on right side of tip of tongue, on upper surface towards edge.Flat epithelioma left side of nose. Much glairymucus from nose alternating with unusual dryness. Nasal intonation of voice. Stiffness in nose. Pressive full feeling in bridge.Allays   the   pain   in   gastralgia   accompanying   cancer   of stomach.  Cancer  of  stomach,  severe  pains,  vomiting  of coffee   ground   masses;   hard   knobby,   large   swelling   in pylorus,  complete  loss  of  appetite,  emaciation,  cachectic look, constipation.Anorexia.Schirrhus  mammae;  tumor  hard  immovable  with  severe lancinating pains, nipple retracted; skin purple in spots and wrinkled;  ulcerationwith  foetid  sanious  discharge  and much sloughing. Most efficacious in open cancer or cancerous ulcers, where it effectually moderates the severity of pain.Patient generally feels miserable.]
38.Conium maculatum-The remedy is found usefulin CarcinomaBreast.It acts on the glandular system, engorging and indurating it, altering its structure.Breasts are sore, hard and painful before and during  menstruation.  Tumors,  piercing  pains;  worse,  at night. There is a general feeling as if bruised by blows. Great debility in the morning in bed.The patient is generally worse, lying down,turningor rising in bed;before and during menses, from taking cold, bodily or  mental  exertion  and betterwhile  fasting,  in  the  dark, from   letting   limbs   hang   down,   motion and   pressure.Predominantly right  sided  affections and  thermallythe patient is chilly.]
39.Hydrastis canadensis-Hydrastis is found useful in cancer breast and stomach. In cancer of stomach there is bitter taste and pain as if from a hard  cornered  substance,all  gone  sensation,  cannot  eat bread  and  vegetables,  vomits  everything  except  milk  and water   mixed;   pain   in   the   pit   of   stomach,   emaciation, cancerous  cachexia.  In  Cancer  of  breast,tumor  is  hard, adherent,  skin  mottled,  puckered;  cutting  like  knives  in mammæ.Mentally  the  patient  is  irritable;  disposed  to  be  spiteful; gloomy,  taciturn,  disagreeable.Moaning  with  occasional outcries from pain.Depression; sure of death and desires it. Generally worse in cold, dry winds. ]
40.Lachesis mutus-Indicated  in  melanotic,  colloid  and  encephalitic  cancer; ulcers are   sensitive   to   touch with   ichorous   offensive discharge,   blood   dark,   non-coagulable;   violent   burning gangrenous spots; cancer of lower lip, dry bleeding. Cancer  of  stomach,  the  pit  very  sensitive  to  touch,  with  a gnawing  pressure,  amelioration  by  eating,  but  coming  on again in a few hours, and the more violent the emptier the stomach.Cancer  of  breast  with  lancinating  pains  and  a  constant painful  feeling  of  weakness  and  lameness  in  left  shoulder and  arm; open  cancer  has  a  dark,  bluish-red  appearance, with blackish streaks of decomposed blood.Uterine cancer developing itself at climaxis, pains increase rapidly until relieved by profuse discharge of blood. Patientis loquacious; thin and emaciated, sleeps into an aggravation; complaints usually left sided & are thermally he  is hot.Blueness  of  affected  parts;  weakness  of  whole body on rising in the morning. ]
41.Lycopodium clavatum-Useful  in Cancer  of  Breast:  Right  breast  eaten  away  by cancer. Swelling of the breasts with nodosities.Excoriation and  moist  scabs  on  nipples.  Stinging  in  nipples. Pains: aching-pressure,  drawing;  chiefly  right  sided,  <four  to eight P.M. Affects right side, or pain goes from right to left; throat, chest, abdomen, liver, ovaries. Gastric affections;excessive accumulation of flatulence; constant  sensation  of  satiety;  good  appetite,  buta  few mouthfuls  fill  up  to  the  throat,and  he  feels  bloated; fermentation  in abdomen,  withloud  grumbling,  croaking, especially   lower   abdomen   ;   fullness   not   relieved   by belching.Debility in morning. Emaciation. Indicated  in  prematurely  old  persons  who  are mentally keen but physically weak persons. Generally worse, warm applications,  except  throat  and  stomach  which  are  better from  warm  drinks and  better,  bymotion,  after  midnight, from  warm  food  and  drink,  on  getting  cold,  from  being uncovered.Thermally a hot person.]
42.Phytolacca decandra-Pre_eminently  a  glandular  remedy.Glandular  swellings with   heat   and   inflammation. Indicated   in   cancerous affections of nose with total obstruction of the nose: when riding, must  breathe  through  the  mouth. Cancer  of  lips:Lower lip drawn down, lips everted.Cancer of breast when the tumor is hard, painful and purple. Itis suited   to   individuals sensitive   to   damp   weather. Aching,   sorenesswhich   cause   the   patient   to   groan, restlessnessandprostration are general symptoms guiding to the  selection  of  Phytolacca. Generally  worse  raisingup, motion, swallowing, hotdrinks. heat, cold dampweather,night,  change  of  weather and  better lying  on abdomenand by taking cold drinks.]
43.Thuja occidentalis-Thuja can be given in spongy tumors and bleeding fungous growths. Hydrogenoid  constitutions,  cancerous  cachexia, weakly  cachectic,  yellowish  and  pallid.  Rapid  exhaustion and emaciation. Fixed ideas, as if a strange person were at his side; as if soul and body were separated; as if something alive in abdomen. Emotional sensitiveness, music causes weeping and   trembling.Indicated   for   Ill   effects   of   vaccination.Sycotic  pains,  i.e,  tearing  in  muscles  and  joints,  worse  at rest,    better    in    dry    weather,    worse    damp    humid atmosphere; lameness. Generally worse at night, from heat,at 3 am and 3 pm ; from cold , damp air and better  left side , while drawing up a limb. Affections are generally left sided and patients are predominantly chilly.]
44.Aurum metallicum-Indicated  in  depression  which  results  from  fright,  anger, contradiction,  mortification,  vexation,  dreads  and  reserved displeasure.  Person  become  low  spirited  &  lifeless  with feeling of self-condemnation and utter worthlessness.Suitedin extreme cases of depression where patients  seek  different  methods  to  commit  suicide.  Least contradiction    excites    anger    in    them.    Feel    hateful    & quarrelsome.  Sleepless.  Complaint  <in  winter  >in  summer having weak memories. Sad, feels that all is against her and life  is  not  desirable,  and  the  thought  of  death  alone  gives pleasure.]
45.Ignatia amara-Suited to sensitive, easily excited nature women having mild disposition,  quick  to perceive,  rapid  in  execution.  Person become depressed aftershocks, grief, disappointment & also result  from  bad  effect  of  bad  news,  from  vexation  with reserved displeasure, from suppressed mental suffering, of shame   &mortification.Patient   is   introspective,   sad,   and tearful;  brood  silently,mood  swings.  sighing  and  sobbing. Worse, in the morning, from smoking.]
46.Kaliphosphorium-Suited  to  anxious,  nervous  &  irritable  person.  Indicated  in extreme  lassitude  and  depression.  Slightest  labor  seems  a heavy  task  for  them.  Exhaustion  after  moderate  mental effort. Person  is indifferent  and  captious.  Loss  of  memory.Easy perspiration, sensitivity to cold, anemia, insomnia, and indigestion are often seen when this remedy is needed.]
47.Natrum muriaticum-Suited  to  reserved,  sensitive  and  emotional  persons.Bad effect  of grief, disappointment,  anger,  fright,  vexation  & suppression  of  inner  feelings.  Becomes  angry  if  someone tries  to  console  them.  Wants  to  be  alone  to  cry.  Anxiety, brooding  about  past  grievances,  migraines,  back  pain,  and insomnia   can   also   be   experienced   when   the person   is depressed. Person is awkward & hasty.  Craves for salt and tiredness  from  sun  exposure  are  other  indications  for  this remedy.]
48.Sepia officinalis-It  is a   remedyindicated especially   towomen   and   in depression   occurring   during   &   after   pregnancy.   Weary, irritable  &  indifferentto  loved  ones  or  family  members. Persons  worn  out  by  the  demands  of  everyday  life,easily offended, very sad. Having weeping disposition. Dreads to be alone.  Anxious  toward  evening  Indolent  & sensitive  to  cold air.  Menstrual  problems,  bearing  feeling  in  internal  organs, sluggish digestion, and improvement from vigorous exercise are other indications for this remedy.]
49.Acid phosphoricum-Indicated  for  depression caused  by  chagrin,  grief,  from excessive   care,   sorrow,   from   long   succession   of   moral emotion,   from   disappointed   affection.   Person   become listless, apathetic & indifferent to the affairs of life. They feel prostrated and stupefied with grief.]
50.Conium maculatum-Suited  to  old  age  people  &  bachelors.  Depression  from  any kind of excitements. Patient istimid & morose. No inclination for business or study; takes no interest in anything. Afraid of being  alone  yet  avoids  society.  Memory  weak;  unable  to sustain  any  mental  effort.  Cannot  bear  contradiction.Bad effect   of   suppression   of   sexual   desire.   Debility,   vertigo, cancerous tendenciesare other indicatorsof this drug.]
51.Staphysagria-Suited  to  quiet,  sensitive,  emotional  people.  Humiliating experiences, insult or loss of pride and suppressed emotions or anger can lead them to depression. Bad effect of onanism, sexual excess, mortification, chagrin & reserved displeasure. Person become indifferent, apathetic & low spirited. Memory weak.  People  are  sad  &  fear  about  his  future.  Headaches, toothache  and  stomachache  are  pointers  to  the  use  of  this remedy.]
52.Natrum muriaticum-Indicated in patients who have polyuria, unquenchable thirst; emaciation  especially  marked  about  the  neck  though  eating well; loss of appetite and scanty sweat. Dryness of allmucous membrane    and    skin;    great    weakness    and    weariness.  Involuntary   escape   of   urine   while   walking,   coughing,   or sneezing. Patient   is   very   sensitive,   emotional   and   strong   willed personality.Broods over past undesirable events and suffers from silent grief.Contradiction and consolation aggravate.Anemia   and   cachexiafrom   loss   of   vital   fluids, menses  and  after  mental  affection.Earthy  complexion  and oily  greasy  skin  especially  of  face.  Mapped  or  geographical tongue. Craving  for  salt,  bitter  things,  oysters, fish  and  milk. Aversion  to  bread,  fatsand  coffee.  Aggravation  in morning and  forenoon;  10  to   11  AM,  heat Better:   Open   air, cool bathing, sweating, rest, before breakfast.]
53.Lycopodium clavatum-Suitable  in  persons who suffer  from  burning  in  general  and urine in particular; constant hunger and thirst worse at night; flatulence;  diminished  sexual  power  and  desire(impotency); great emaciation; mental and bodily exhaustion; tendency for lithic acid graveland tardy wound healing.Sensitive,  intelligent, dominating, dictating  and headstrong.Peevish    and    depressed    in    mind. Miserly    and    coward. Irritable,  contradiction  aggravates. Adapted  toold  persons or  children  who  age prematurely  and  have  a weak  body  but sharp  mind(intellectually  keen  but bodily weak).  Earthly complexion  and  yellowish  spots  on  skin  with  or  without vertical  furrows  on  forehead.  Desire  sweets, warm  drinks. Aversion  to  breads. All  complaints  <  4-8pm  Better:  warm drinks, food, cold applications, eructation, urinating.
54.Phosphorous-Glycosuria;  urine  pale, watery  or  turbid,  whitish  like  curdled milk,   with   brick   dust   sediment   etc.;   ravenous   appetite (Hungry  soon  after  eating);  sudden  emaciation  and  gradual weakness and prostration;trembling, numbness and paralysis of lower limbs; increased perspiration and thirst for cold water. Patient  is  lively,  cheerful, and  communicative. Affectionate and  reciprocating;desires  to  be  magnetized.  Sensitive  to  all the  impressions.  Nervous  fidgety  cannot  remain  still  in  one place. Tall,   stooped   shoulder   slender,   sickly   face,   earthy, sunken  and  pale,  Fair  skin,  delicate  eye  lashes,  fine  blond  or red hair. Bleeding tendency. Desires for salt, refreshing spicy things,  wine  and  sour  things.  Aversion  to  sweet,  milk,  boiled meat,  salted  fish,  beer,  puddings,tea  and  coffee.  Aggravation from  lying  on  left  side,  evening,  by  thunderstorm,  change  of weather slight causes: emotions; talking, touch, odors. ]
55.Calcarea carbonica-Frequent and copious urination; sour or pungent; trickling of urine  after  micturition;  tendency  for  unhealthy  and  flaccid wounds  which  donot  heal  easily;  recurrent  infections  with suppurative tendency; tendency for obesity. Adapted  to  apprehensive  fearful (fear  of  night,  dark,  alone strangers),   sluggish, obstinate,   mischievous   and   irritable persons  having  anxiety  with  palpitation.Sensitive  to  noise, and averse to work or exertion. Fat, flabby persons with easy and  profuse perspiration,  which  is   cold,  damp  and  sour. Suited  to  persons  with  blond  hair,  light  complexion,  blue eyes, fair skin,and distendedabdomen with thin extremities.Chilliness  with internal  coldness who get  cold easily.  Desirefor  undigested  food  like  chalk,  coal,  pencil, sweets,   eggs   and   aversion toboiled   food   and   meatwith intolerance  to  milk.  Character  of  discharges  are  yellowish, greenish  thick  or  thin  <  from  physical  and  mental  exertion.Worse  from  cold,  bathing, morning;  during  full  moon.  Better in dry weather; lying on painful side.]
56.Mercurius-Indicated  in  persons  with  excessive  hunger,  emaciation  and profuse  perspirationwhich does  not  relieveand may  even increase  the  suffering. Profuse  urination where  the quantity of   urine   voided   is   larger   than   amount   of   water   drunk, frequent urgingto urinate.Intense thirst, although the tongue looks  moist  and  the  saliva  is  profuse. Great  weakness  and trembling  from  least  exertion.  Itching  and  burning  in  the vulvae. Hasty,  impulsive  and  restless  personswith  light  hair,  skin and lax muscles. These  persons  are  often hurried  and talk rapidly. He   has  earthy  dirty  looking  puffy  face.  Intense craving   for   cold   drinks Aversion   to   meat,   wine,   brandy, coffee, greasyfood, and buttermilk. Milk and sweets disagree. Profuse    discharges    which    are    offensiveand    do    not ameliorate. Aggravation  of  complaints  at  night, wet  damp weather; in autumn,  warm days and cold,  damp nights; lying on right side; perspiring.]
57.Sulphur-Excessive hunger,thin and weak, even with good appetite.Weak,  empty,  gone  or  faint feeling  in  the  stomach about 11 a. m. (10 or 11 a. m. > by eating, Nat. c.); cannot wait for lunch; frequent weak, faint spells during the day. Profuse thirst  drinks  much  eats  less.  Frequency  of  urination,  must hurry to urinate large quantity of colorless urine. Burning all over the body. Dry filthy dirty suppurating skin; with profuse acrid discharges excoriating the parts.Suitable to quick motioned, quick tempered,irritablepersons who   are mentally   egoistic,   dwellon   philosophical   and religious  speculations(ragged  philosopher).  Hot  patientswho desire sweets and in whom milk disagrees. Aggravation from rest, warmth of the bed, washing, 11am, night, early morning, standing. Amelioration dry warm weather lying on right side, drawing limbs. Burning all over the body especially in all the orifices  e.g.  nose,  ear,  rectum  vagina,  urethra  etc.;  flushes  of heat on face.]
58.Aloe Socotrina-Indicated    in    diseases    of    mucous    membranes;    causes    the production of mucus in jelly-like lumps from rectum. Diarrhoea: has to hurry to closetimmediately after eating and drinkingwith want of confidence in sphincter ani; driving out of bed early in the morning.When  passing  flatus,  sensation  as  if  stool  would  pass with  it.  Colic:  cutting,  griping  pain  in  right  lower  portion  of abdomen;  excruciating, before  and  during  stool;  all  pains  cease after stool, leaving profuse sweating and extreme weakness;attacks   preceded   by   obstinate   constipation.   Flatus offensive, burning copious; much flatus with small stool; burning in  anus  after  passage  of  flatus.Solid  stool  and  masses  of  mucus pass    involuntarily; hungry   during   diarrhoea.   Before    stool: rumbling,  violent  sudden  urging;heaviness  in  rectum;  during stool, tenesmus andmuch flatus; after stool faintness.Adapted to indolent, "weary" persons; averse toeither mental or physical   labor;  mental   labor  fatigues. Dissatisfied  and  angry about himself or his complaints. Old people; especially women of relaxed, phelgmatic habit. Extreme prostration, with perspiration.Worse   early   morning;   sedentary   life;   hot   dryweather;  after  eating  or  drinking;  standing  or  walking.  Better: cold water; cold weather; discharge of flatus and stool.]
59.Arsenicum album-Indicated  in  gastric  derangements;  after  cold  fruits;  ice  cream; ice water;bad sausage; alcoholic drinks; strongcheese; decayed food  or  animal  matter.Diarrhoea,  after  eating  or  drinking;  stool scanty,   dark-colored,   offensive,   and   whether   small   or   large, followed   by   great   prostration. Dysentery   dark,   bloody,   very offensive.  Cholera,  with  intense  agony,  prostration,and  burning thirst.  Body  cold  as  ice. Nausea,  retching,  vomiting,  after  eating or drinking. Cannot bear the sight or smell of food. Anxiety in pit of stomach. Great thirst; drinks much, but little at a time.Suited  to  restless,  anxious  and  irritable persons  with  burning pains  which  are  better  from  heat.  There is debility,  exhaustion, and   restlessnessafter   the   slightest   exertion. Worse   after midnight  (1  to  2  a.  m.  or  p.  m.);  from  cold;  cold  drinks  or  food; when  lying  on  affected  side  or  with  the  headlow.Better  from heat in general.]
60.Chamomilla-Commonly indicated  ininfants andchildren  for diarrhea  during dentition.Diarrhoea:  from  cold,  anger  or  chagrin;  after  tobacco; in   child-bed;   from   downward   motion   Stool   green,   watery, corroding,  like chopped  eggs  and  spinach;  hot,  very  offensive, like rotten eggs.Suitable  for  peevish,  irritable, cross,  snappish,  uncivil  persons who  are oversensitive  to  pain,  driven  to  despair.  Child  is quiet only  when  carried;  impatient,  wants  this  or  that  and  becomes angry   when   refused,   or   when   offered,   petulantly   rejects   it. Mental calmness contraindicates Chamomila.Worse by heat; < evening  before  midnight;  with  heat,  thirst  and  fainting; withnumbness of affected part. One cheek red and hot, the other pale and cold.]
61.Croton Tiglium-A valuable remedy in diarrhœa and summer complaint.Copious watery  stools,  with  much  urging;  always  forcibly  shot  out,  with gurgling in intestines; worse, drinking the least quantity, or even while   eating.   Constant   urging   to   stoolfollowed   by   sudden evacuation,  which  is  shot  out  of  the  rectum.Swashing  sensation in intestines.Yellow, watery stool.Diarrhea associated with skin affections.Diarrhoea   is   worse every   motion;   after   drinking; while   eating   or   nursing;   during   summer;   fromfruit   and sweetmeats;the least food or drink.]
62.Cinchona officinalis-Indicated  inpainlessdiarrheawith  great  bloating,  indigestion, and  general  weakness.Sensation  as  if  abdomen  is  full  of  gaswhich  is  not  relieved  by  eructations.Undigested,  frothy,yellow; painless;  worse  at  night,  after  meals,  during  hot  weather,  from fruit, milk.For stout, swarthy persons; for systems, once robust, which have become  debilitated,  "broken  down"  from  exhausting  discharges.  Periodicity  of  complaints;  liking  for  sourthings.  Sensitive to draughts  of  air  yet  wants  to  be  fanned;  face  pale,  eyes  sunken and   surrounded   by   blue   margins. Worse:slightest   touch. draught of air; every other day; loss of vital fluids; at night; after eating;  bending  over.  Better:bending  double;  hard  pressure; open air; warmth.]
63.Gambogia-Indicated  in profuse  watery  with  sudden  &  forcible  ejection  of bilious  stoolswhich  usually  occur  in  hot weather.Tenesmus after,   with   burning   at   anus Greatrumbling and   rolling in abdomen with frequent emission of flatulence.Profuse, watery diarrhœa  in  hot  weather,  particularly  old  people. Symptomsaggravate towardevening &atnight.]
64.Podophyllum-Diarrhœaof  long  standing;  early  in  morning;  during  teething, with  hot,  glowing  cheeks  while  being  bathed  or  washed;  in  hot weather after acid fruits. Morning, painless diarrhœa when not due to venous stasis or intestinal ulceration. Green, watery, fetid, profuse,gushing.Stool  profuse,  painless,  polychromatic,  putrid withprolapse of rectum.Stools watery in the morning continues throughforenoon,  followed  by naturalstool  in  the  evening with sensation   of   weakness   or   sinking   in   abdomen   or   rectum.Painless  cholera  morbus;  cholera  infantum.   Violentcramps  in feet,  calves,  thighswithwatery,  painless  stools.  Diarrhoea  of children:  during  teething;  after  eating;  while  being  bathed  or washed;  of  dirty  water  soaking  napkin  through  with  gagging.Patient is constantly rubbing and shaking the region of liver with his  hand.Great  thirst  for  large  quantity  of  cold  water. Diarrheaaggravated  by  eating,  drinking,  moving  aroundand early  inmorning.]
65.Veratrum album-Diarrhœa:very  painful,  watery,  copious,  and  forcibly  evacuated, followed  by  great  prostration.  Evacuations  of  cholera  morbus and   true   cholera   when   vomiting   accompanies   the   purging.Bloated  abdomen withcrampscommencing  in  hands and  feet and  spreading  all  over.Cold  sweat  on  forehead  during  diarrhea.Diarrhea  <  at  least  movement.Diarrhoea  with  great  vomiting and purging. Indicated  in  a   condition   of collapse,  with  extreme  coldness, blueness, and weakness. Chilly and weak yet craves cold drinks. ]
66.Aurum metallicum-Indicated   in   hypertension   due   to   valvular   lesions   and arteriosclerosis.Prolongeddepression, anger, stress &worry may cause  high  blood  pressure.Pulse small,feeble, rapid     andirregular     with     visible     beating.Violent palpitationwith  congestion  of  blood  in  head  &  chest  after exertionwhich compels  the  patient  to  stop  walkingor motion.Sensation  as  if heart  stopped  beatingfor  two  or three     seconds     which immediately     followed     by     a tumultuous rebound.Indicated  in oversensitive, conscientiouspersons  who  are low   spirited,   lifeless   with   weak   memory, despondent, depressed with suicidal tendencyand havea tendency for self-reproach.Worse from emotions, mental exertion, cold weather, sunset to sunrise. ]
67.Baryta Muriaticum-Indicated  in  hypertension  due  to  vascular  degeneration when  systolic  pressure is high with  comparatively  low diastolic pressure which is attended by cerebral & cardiac symptoms.Useful  in  arteriosclerosis  &  in  aneurysm  of aorta.Headache,  but  without  acute  crisis,  occurring  in  old people; heaviness rather than pain. Useful  for  organic  lesions  of  the  aged  who  are  physically and mentally dwarfish.] 
68.Natrum muriaticum-Indicated in persons with tachycardia.Heart and chest feel constricted.   Sensation   of   coldness   in   the   heartwhen exerting the mind or from mental overexertion. Fluttering of  the  heart,  &  weak  faint  feeling  <lying  down.  Weak,palpating, intermittent pulse. Pulsation of heart shakes the body. Headache with blindness; > perspiration. Bursting    headache    over    eyes;    <    sunrise    to    sunset. Nosebleed, on stooping or when coughing; at night; clotted blood. Patient  is reserved, sensitive  and  emotional.Suffers  from bad  effect  of grief,  disappointment,  anger, fright, vexation &suppression  of  inner  feelings.He  is  thin,  thirsty, poorly nourished on account of digestive disturbanceswith great weakness  and  weariness.  Craving  for  salt,  bitter  things, sour  and  farinaceous  food.Mapped  tongue.Aggravation from consolation, being  in  the  sun,  around  mid-morning and better from being alone in a quiet place.]
69.Veratrum viride-It induces fall of both systolic and diastolic blood pressure.Pulse:  suddenly  increases  and  gradually  decreases  below normal.Pulse slow,   soft,   weak;   irregular,   intermittent.Rapid pulse with low tension. Beating of pulse throughout body, especially in right thigh. Useful in violent congestive conditions. Severe   frontal  headache   and  vomiting.   Bad effect   of   sunstroke:   head   full   with   throbbing   arteries. Pupil dilated with double vision.Indicated  in  full  blooded,  plethoric  persons.  They  have thick speech,coated  tongue with  red  streak  in  middle.Worse  rising,  motion,  cold,  lying  on  back.  Better  rubbing, lying with head low.] 
7o.Viscum album-Indicated  inhypertension  with  valvular  insufficiency  and hypertrophy  of  heart.Weight   &   oppression;feeling  in heart as if squeezed with hand.Pulse small, quick, and very irregular.Feeling of suffocation when lying on the left side.Unable to rest in reclining position. Useful in hypertensive albuminuria.These  persons  may  have  frightful  thoughts  on  waking  at night  and  abstraction  of  mind. Worse  in  winters,cold stormy weather; lying on left side. ]
71.Argentum nitricum-Indicatedin    gastrointestinal    conditions    accompanied    by nervousness  &  anxiety. Upper  abdominal  affections  brought  on by  undue  mental  exertion.  Belching  accompanies  most  gastric ailments.  Flatulence;  painful  swelling  of  pit  with  colic.  Painful spot in the stomach that radiates to all parts of the abdomen; < slightest  pressure.   Stool is  watery,  noisy,  flatulent;  green  like chopped spinach, and shreddy mucus with enormous distension of  abdomen.   Diarrhoea  immediately  after  drinking  water  and eating too much sweet or salty food. Impulsive,anxious   and   nervous   persons.Withered   up,   old lookingpeople  with  marked  emaciation  especially  in  the  lower extremities.   Craving   for   sweets   and   desire   for   salty   food.Intolerance of heat. Desire for open air. Worse fear, fright, mental strain, cod food, ice cream etc. Better cold open air; hard pressure etc.]
72.Cinchona officinalis-Indicated in persons  who  suffer  from painless  watery diarrhea with    great    bloating,    indigestion,    and    general    weakness. Sensation  as  if  abdomen  is  full  of  gas  which  is  not  relieved  by eructation. Slow  digestion.  Weight  after  eating.  Hungry  without appetite.   Hungry,   longing   for   food   which   lies   undigested. Flatulence; belching of bitter fluid or regurgitation of food gives no  relief;  worse  eating  fruit.  Bloatedness  better  by  movement. Undigested,  frothy,  yellow,  painless  stool;  worse  at  night,  after meals, during hot weather, from milk. Suited  to  apathetic,  indifferent,despondent  &  gloomy persons in which there is debility from exhausting diseases; from loss of vital  fluids  and  nervous  erethism.  Periodicity  of  complaints. Weak   and   oversensitive   persons.   Sensitiveness   to   draughts. Chilly person, sensitive  to   draughts  of  air  yet  wants   to   be fanned; face pale with sunken features.]
73.Lycopodium clavatum-Indicated  in  dyspepsia with  great  flatulence and  fermentation. Much  noisy  flatulence<  lower  abdomen,  gurgling  and  rumbling esp.  in  the  region  of  transverse  colon.  Fullness  not  relieved  by belching.  Constant  sensation  of  satiety;  good  appetite  but  a  few mouthfuls  fill  up  to  the  throat.  Inactivity  of  bowels.  Ineffectual urging  to  stool.  Constipation  since  puberty,  last  confinement, when  away  from  home.  Small  stool,  with  the  sensation  as  if much   remained   behind,   followed   by   excessive   and   painful accumulations  of  flatulence.Everything  tastessour,  eructation, heartburn, waterbrash, sour vomiting. Sensitive,   intelligent, dominating, dictating   and headstrong. Peevish  and  depressed  in  mind. Miserly  and  coward.  Irritable, contradiction  aggravates. Adapted  toold  persons  or  children who  age prematurely  and  have  a weak  body  but  sharp  mind(intellectually  keen  but bodily weak).  Earthly  complexion  and yellowish  spots  on  skin  with  or  without vertical  furrows  on forehead.  Desire  sweets, warm  drinks.  Aversion  to  breads. All complaints    <    4-8pm    Better:    warm    drinks,    food,    cold applications, eructation.]
74.Natrum Carbonicum-Indicated   inpersons   with   very   weak   digestion,   caused   by slightest  error  in  diet.  Gastrointestinal trouble  from  various types  of  foods  esp.  dairy  products  which  lead to  gas  formation and spluttering diarrhoeawith an empty feeling in the stomach. Intolerance  of  milk,  and  dairy  products. Old  dyspeptics,  always belching,  have  a  sour  stomach  and  rheumatism. Ill  effects  of drinking cold water when overheated.Bitter taste. Inabiltyto  think  or  perform  any  mental  labor.  Melancholic  and apprehensive.  Great  debility  caused  by  summer  heat;  chronic effects of sunstroke. Thin emaciated persons with milky, watery skin  and  very  weak  ankles.    Worse  from  music,  in  the  sun, mental exertion, thunderstorm.]
75.Nux Vomica-Flatulent distension with spasmodic colic. Constant nausea after eating. Pressure in stomach an hour or two after eating as from stone.  Cannot  use  mind  for  2-3  hours  after  meal. Constipation with  frequent  ineffectual  desire,passing  small  quantities  of faeces,    sensation    as    if    not    finished. Constant    feeling    of uneasiness in  the  rectum. Diarrhoea  after  debauch<in  morning. Constipation  &  diarrhea  alternate  in  persons  who  have  taken purgatives all their life. Suited  to excitable, hypochondriacal,  zealous,  ambitious  and workaholics who   become are   prone   to   anger,   spite   and deception. Debauchers prone to indigestion and haemorrhoids. Craving for spicy foods, alcohol, tobacco and other stimulants & worse  from  having  them, oversensitive  to external impressionsare  other  indications  of  this  remedy.Worse  in  morning,  from mental  exertion, after  eating,  touch.  Better  at  rest,  damp  wet weather.]
 76.Pulsatilla-Dyspepsia  with  great  tightness,  all  gone  sensation  in  stomach &waterbrashwith    foul    taste    in    mouth.Bitter    belching, indigestion  and  heartburn  worse  at  night.  Excessive  flatulence with  great  rumbling,  difficult  to  expel.  Colic  with  chilliness  in evening .Stoolchangesfrom constipation to diarrhea duringthe course  of  a  day.  Diarrhoea:  only  at  night  or  usually  at  night; watery,  greenish  yellow,  changeable,  as  soon  as  they  eat,  from fruit, cold food and drinks, ice cream... Persons    who    desire    company,    mild,    gentle,    affectionate, yielding, weeping disposition.Hot patient; markedchangeability;   thirstlessness   with   great   dryness   of   mouth. Desire   for   cheese,   pungent   things,   highly   seasoned   food; aversion to fat, warm foods and drinks; tongue coated yellow or whitish;  worse  towards  evening  and  in  the  warm  room,  always better in open air, by slow, gentle motion and cold applications.] 
77.Sulphur-Indicated in complete loss of or excessive appetite. Drinks a lot, eats little. Great acidity, sour eructation. Burning, painful weight pressure.  Abdomen  very  sensitive  to  pressure. Weak  empty  all gone  sensation  in  the  stomach  around11A.M. Early  morning diarrhea,  which  drives out  of  bed. Diarrhea  frequent,  painless. At  the  other  time,  person  may  suffer  from constipation  where stool large, hard as if burnt, painful andsuffer from gas with an offensive  smell.Redness  around  the  rectum,  with  itching  and burning. Suitable  to quick  motioned,  quick  tempered,irritablepersons who  are mentally  egoistic,  dwellon  philosophical  and  religious speculations(ragged   philosopher).   Hot   patients   who desire sweets  and in  whom milk  disagrees.  Aggravation  from  rest, warmth   of   the   bed,   washing,   11am,   night,   early   morning, standing.  Amelioration  dry  warm  weather  lying  on  right  side, drawing  limbs.  Burning  all  over  the  body  especially  in  all  the orifices e.g. nose, ear, rectum vagina, urethra etc.; flushes of heat on face.] 
78.Sepia officinalis-Medicine    is    suitable    to    patients    having climacteric    flushes ascending  from  pelvis  with  least  motion,  anxiety,  an  oppressed feeling ending in perspiration. Dyspareunia from dryness of vagina and bleeding. Decreased sexual desire. There is history of repeated pregnancies  in  patient. Weakness,  yellow  complexion,  bearing-down sensation, especially in women, upon whose organism it has most  pronounced  effect.  Pains  extend  down  to  back,  chills  easily. Prolapsus  uteri,  with  congestion,  with  yellow  leucorrhœa. Irritable; easily offended. Persons  who  are  sad,  indifferent  even  to  loved  ones,  irritable, indolent and quarrelsome.Chilly patient; predisposed to take cold at  the  change  of  weather;  thin  built  with  narrow  pelvis; sudden prostration  with  sinking  faintness  with  all  complaints;  offensive sweat;  desire  for  vinegar,  acids,  pickles  and  sour,  but  sour  food aggravates. Aggravated  after  laundry  work  and  better  by  warmth of bed, after violent exercise.]
79.Lachesis mutus-This  drug  is  of  value  in  females  who  have  never  felt  well  since change of life-"have never felt well since that time". During change of  life,  she  has  flushes  of  heat  all  day,  and  cold  flushes  on  retiring at night. Burning in vertex with headache, especially at or after the menopause.  Lachesis  is  a  valuable  remedy  at  the  climaxis,  esp.  in the  woman  who  has  exhausted  herself  by  frequent  pregnancies and  hard  work.  In  this  worn  out  condition,  there  occurs  a  sudden cessation of menses. Suppression ornon-appearance of discharges always makes the Lachesis patient worse.Suspicious, jealous,  loquacious.  Thinks  she  is  someone  else;  in  the hands  of  a  stronger  power;  that  she  is  dead  and  preparations  are being  made  for  her  funeral;  that  she  is  nearly  deadand  wishes someone would help her off. Left-sided complaints or moving from left to right.]
80.Graphites-What  Pulsatilla  is  during  puberty,  Graphites  is at  the  climateric.Flushes  of  heat  with  numbness  felt  in  whole  head.  Menses:  late, irregular, scanty, pale mixed with small clots and of short duration.Great aversion to coitus.Suited to patients who are who are rather stout,  of  fair  complexion,  with  tendency  to  skin  affections  and constipation,   fat,   chilly   and   costive,   with   delayed   menstrual history.]
81.Sulphur-Sulphur   is   useful   in   flushes   of   heat   to   the   face   and   head   at climacteric  period.  Burning  palms  and  soles  with  tendency  to uncover.  The  flushes beginsomewhere  in  the  heart  region,  in  the chest and feels as if a glow of heat is rising to the face. Irregularity in the menstrual flow, suppressed from the slightest disturbances. Prolonged uterine hemorrhages.Hot patient, dirty filthy, lean thin, stoop   shoulder   who   walk   and   sit   stooping.   Nervous,   quick tempered.  Emotionally  irritable  and  sluggish.  Doesn’t  want  to wash or bathe. Thirsty for cold drinks, little appetite, worse 5 A.M.]
82.Argentum nitricum-This  medicine  is  indicated  in  metrorrhagia  at  climaxis,  (also  of young   widows   and   childless   women).   Nervous   erythrism   at change   of   life.Palpitation,   trembling,   coldness   of   the   surface, desire   for   open   air,   blueness, coldness   of   lower   extremities. Menses irregular, too soon or too late or last for a day only. Menses scanty  with  dyspnoea.  Patients  are  old,  dried  up,  tremulousand weak. Coition   painful,   followed   by   bleeding   from   the   vagina.Craves  sugar,  which  <.  Impulseto  do  everything  in  a  hurry,  time passes  too  slowly.  Fear  at  high  places.  Impulse  to  jump  while crossing a bridge.]
83.Calcarea carbonica-Medicine is suitable for women with history of too early & profuse menstruation.    Congestive    headache.    The    menstrual    flow    is provoked by over-exertion or by emotion.Voluptuous sensation in the  genital parts,  with emission.Leucorrhea, with  burning  itching, or else like milk,  flowing by fits, and  during the emission of urine. Depressed  melancholic  or  doubting  mood;  fears  disease,  misery, disaster, being observed.The patient fears she will lose her reason, or  that  people  will  notice  her  mental  confusion.  Fears  she  has some  fatal  disease,  especially  heart  disease.Pain  as  if  the  parts would  burst,  were  pressed  as  under,  werepushed  as  under;  as  if cold,  damp  stockings  were  on  the  feet.Chilly  patient,  takes  cold easily, fat flair, flabby. Sour odor of sweat, stools, breath. Desire for eggs and indigestible things, aversion to meat and milk.]
84.Sanguinaria canadensis-In  Sanguinaria patient’s headaches return at climacteric; every seventh  day.    There  is  flushing  with  headache,  >  open  air  and sleep.Climacteric  disorders,  esp.  flushes  of  heat  and  corrosive, fetid    leucorrhea.    Burning    of    palms    and    soles    at    climaxis; compelling  her  to  throw  off  her  clothes.  Painful  enlargement  of breasts   at   climaxis.Sharp,   piercing   pain   in   right   breast,   just beneath nipple;<deep breath, some dyspnœa. Pain in right breast extends  to  shoulder,  can  hardly  place  hand  on  head.  Anxiety  and feeling    of dread.    Anxiety    precedes    vomiting    and    delirium. Moroseness, with nausea; cannot bear a person to walk in room.]
88.Phosphorus-Menorrhagia  at  climacteric  period.  Vicarious  menses.  Flushes  of heat  beginning  in  back  or  stomach.  Violent  palpitation.  <  from motion;  lying  on  left  side,  evening;  at  night  or  waking.  Copious hemorrhages  from  uterus  at  the  climacteric  period;  menses  too early, flow bright red. Nervous  persons,  oversensitive  to  external  impressions –light, noise,  touch,  odour,  etc;  desire  to  be  magnetized  and  those  who have anxiety especially during thunderstorm. Melancholy sadness, sometimes   with   violent   weeping,   or   interrupted   by   fits   of involuntary  laughter.NymphomaniaChilly  patients;  tall,  slender, narrow chested; have a craving for salt and cold water.Aversion to sweets.]
89.Apismellifica-This  medicine  is  indicated  in  amenorrhea  or  menorrhagia  of females.  There  is  an  inflammation,  induration,  swelling,  and dropsy of the ovaries (right).Weight and pain in either ovarian region,  predominantly  right  side.  The  ovaries  feel  better  by lying  on  right  side.  Enlargement  of  the  right  ovary  with  pain which  issharp,  cutting,  stinging  worse  during  menstruation. Ovarian tumours, with stinging pains like bee-stings. Sudden; shrill criesor pains that extort cries. Ovaries numb with cystic tumor. Menses suppressed, with cerebral and head symptoms, especially in young girls. Dysmenorrhoea, with severe ovarian pains. Useful for amenorrhea of puberty. Apisis more a right-side medicine; symptoms proceed from right to left and from above downwards. Patient is Irritable, excitable,jealous, fussy and fidgetyor apathetic in nature.]
90.Natrum muriaticum-Suitable  to  patients  having  shining  face,  as  if  greasy.  Itching and  eruption  of  pimples  on  face  and  forehead.  Affects  hair follicles.  Alopecia.  Difficulty  in  appearance  of  first  menses. Menses   premature   and   profuse;   or   retarded   and   scanty. Headache  before,during,  and  after  Menses.  Before  menses, moroseness  and  irritability.  At  commencement  of  menses, sadness. During menses, cramps in abdomen. Spitting blood at menstrual nisus; bloody saliva. Averse to bread.Nat. m. is one of  the  first  remedies  for  headaches  of  schoolgirls.  Headache with  partial  blindness.Melancholy  sadness,  which  induces  a constant  recurrence  to  unpleasant  recollections,  and  much weeping;  all  attempts  at  consolation<.Psychic   causes   of disease;   ill   effects   of   grief,   fright,   anger,   etc.   Depressed, particularly  in  chronic  diseases.  Oversensitive  to  all  sorts  of influences.]
91.Pulsatillanigricans-Remedy is suited in affections in general of the female genital organs;    of    the    uterus.    Catameniairregular,    tardy,    or premature,  of  too  short  or  too  long  duration,  or  entirely suppressed  (esp.  if  produced  by  getting  the  feet  wet),  with colic,  hysterical  spasms  in  abdomen.  Delay  of  first  menses  in mild,   gentle   girls,   low-spirited,   diarrhea   during   menses. Suppression of menses (esp. in elderly women in whom they usually   occur   at   full   moon).Symptoms   are   changeful   & shifting.  Patients  are  chilly, yet  averse  to  heat;  in  a  warm room;withthepain; on lying down at night.Aversion to fatty foods, thirstless with great dryness of mouth, discharges thick, bland, and yellowish-green, worse in evening and warm room, better from fresh air.]
92.Calcarea carbonica-In   Calcarea   carbonicapatient,   there   is   headache,   colic, chilliness  and  leucorrhoea  before  menses.  Cutting  pains  in uterus during menstruation. Menses too early, too profuse, too long,  with  vertigo,  toothache  and  cold,  damp  feet;  the  least excitement  causes  their  return.  Burning  and  itching  of  parts. before  and  after  menstruation;  in  little  girls.  Face  pale  and hollow,  with  eyes  sunk  and  surrounded  by  a  livid  circle. Patient  is  forgetful,  confused,  and  low-spirited.  Has  anxiety with palpitation. Obstinacy; slight mental effort produces hot head. Averse to work or exertion. Calcarea patient is fat, fair, flabby and perspiring.]
93.Sulphur-Sulphur   patient   is   stooped,   lank,   uncured,   untidy   and unwashed.  Suffers  from  menses  too  late;  too  short.  Delay  of first  menses.  Amenorrhœa,     dreadful     depression     and apprehension,  head  feels  full  and  heavy,  followed  by  violent headache, numbness of arms and legs, cramp and sick feeling at  during  menstrual  period.  Menstrual  blood  thick,  acrid, corroding  thighs;  scanty,  dark;  dark,  putrid,  clotted.  Before menses:   headache,   itching   in   the   parts;   spasmodic   colic; inquietude; cough; toothache; pyrosis; epistaxis; leucorrhœa, and   asthmatic   sufferings. Patient’s  drinksmuch,eatlittle. Great  indolence  and  repugnance  to  all  exertion,  both  mental and bodily. Burning in feet wantsto find a cool place for them; puts them out of bed to cool them off.]
94.Ignatia amara-Ignatiais  especially  adapted  to  the  nervous  temperament-women    of    sensitive,    easily    excited    nature,    dark,    mild disposition,  quick  to  perceive,  rapid  in  execution.  Menstrual flow is black, too early, too profuse, or scanty.During   menses   great   languor,   with   spasmodic   pains   in stomach and abdomen. Feminine sexual frigidity. Suppression from  grief. The dysmenorrhœa in whichIgn.  is  indicated  has labour-like  bearing-down  in  hypogastrium,>by  pressure;  by lying down; by change of position. The flow is black, putrid; ifprofuse,  clotted.The  superficial  and  erratic  character  of  its symptoms  is  mostcharacteristic.  Effects  of  grief  and  worry. Rapid  change  of  mental  and  physical  condition,  opposite  to each other. Great contradictions.]
95.Sepia officinalis-Sepia    patient    is    usually    having    saddle-like    brownish distribution on nose and cheeks. Sepia acts best on brunettes. Menses too late and scanty, irregular; early and profuse; sharp clutching  pains.  Violent  stitches  upward  in  the  vagina,  from uterus  to  umbilicus.  When  menses  fail  to  appear  in  mothers who  do  not  nurse,  with  inflation  of  abdomen.  Colic  before menses.  During  menses:  irritability,  melancholy,  toothache, headache,  nose-bleed,  and  painful  weariness  in  limbs,  or spasmodic  colic  and  pressure  towards the  parts.  Must  cross her limbs to prevent protrusion of the parts. Dull, heavy pain in  ovaries; Adapted  to  persons  of  dark  hair  and  rigid  fibre; with   venous   stasis,   ptosis,   moth   spots,   drooping   eyelids.Indifferent to those loved best. Averse to occupation, to family.]
96.Kalium bromatum-This drug is of value in ovarian neuralgia with great nervous uneasiness.  Cystic  tumors  of  ovaries.  Pruritus  Exaggerated sexual  desire.  Acne;  on  face  in  young  fleshy  people  of  gross habit.   Ovarian   neuralgia   from   ungratifiedsexual   desire; nervous    unrest.    Neuralgia    of    ovaries;    pain,    swelling, tenderness  of  left  ovary,  diminution  of  sexual  desire.  Before menses:     headache.     During     menses:     epileptic     spasms, nymphomania,   itching,   burning,   and   excitement   in   vulva, pudenda, and clitoris. After menses: headache, insomnia, and heat in genitals. Epileptic attacks at or near menstrual periods.Scanty menstruation in fleshy women. Profound, melancholic delusion;  feeling  of  moral  deficiency;  religious  depression; delusions of conspiracies against her.]
97.Arsenic album-Skin  itching,  burning,  dry,  rough,  and  scaly. Worse  cold and   scratching.   The   lesion   may   also   have   oedema, redness,    excoriations,    crusting.    Sleep    is    disturbed anxious, restless. Disposition include Depression, melancholia, despair, indifference, anxiety, fear, restlessness,   anguish   or   irritability   sensitiveness,   and peevishness.  Marked  prostration  with  fainting, mental restlessness,    burning    pain    better    by    heat,    night aggravation   and   offensive   discharge   are   the   leading indications.]
98.Borax-Psoriasis  with  unhealthy  skin  with  tendency  for  easy suppuration. The hair isuntidy, dirty, tangled, split, sticks together  at  tips  and  cannot  be  combed  smoothly.  The eyelashes    are    loaded    with    dry    gummy    exudation agglutinated   in   morning   and   turns   inwards.   Used   in highly  nervous  constitutions  who  get  frightened  easily from  downward  motion,  rocking,  dancing,  swinging  etc. and  are  sensitive  to  noise,  sharp  sound,  cough,  sneeze and cry. Ulcer can be cured using it.]
99.Calcarea carbonica-Skin    is    unhealthy    readily    ulcerating;    flaccid.    These persons  have great  apprehensionand  fear  that  people will  observe  their  confusion,  are  sensitive  to  hearing about   accident,   cruelties,   riots,   etc.   Profuse   sweating from  head  while  sleeping,  desire  for  eggs,  feeling  better when constipated are the leading indications. Leucophlegmaticconstitution.]
100.Fluoric acidicum-Itching  especially  of  the  orifices  and  in  spots,  worse warmth. Profuse, sour, offensive perspiration. Nails grow rapidly.   Young   persons   with   great   ability   to   exercise without    fatigue    and    is    sensitive    to    extremes    of temperature and worse from warmth.]
101.Graphites-Unhealthy  skin,  eruptions  on  ears,  between  fingers,  toes or  other  skin  folds.Cracks,  fissures  at  tips  of  fingers, nipples,   labial   commissures,   anus   and   between   toes.Rough,   hard   persistent   dryness   of portions   of skin.Chilly individual, constipated, sad, despondent.]
101.Lycopodium clavatum-Skin  with  thickening,  indurations,  brown  spots  on  face, fissures, pre-mature   graying   of   hair.   Violent   itching worse    on    warm    application.Viscid    and    offensive perspiration,  especially  of  feet  and  axilla.  Complexion  is pale,   dirty,   unhealthy,   sallow   with   deep   furrows   and senile   look. Intellectually   keen,   but   physically   weak, upper   part   of   body   emaciated,   lower   parts   dropsical, having  deep  seated progressive  chronic  diseases.Person predisposed to gastric affections. ]
102.Mercurius solubilis-Itching  or  burning  pains  worse  at  night. Lesions  with suppurations.Profuse  sweating  without  any  relief,  thick very   offensive   acrid   discharge,   large   flabby,   thickly coated  tongue,  internal  chilliness,  tendency  for  diarrhea with  slimy  stools  and  offensive  breath are  the  general indications. ]
103.Natrum muriaticum-Greasy,  oily,  especially  on  hairy  parts.  Dry  eruptions  on margin of hairy scalps. Itch and burn, crusty eruptions in bends  of  limbs,  margin  of  scalp  behind  ears. Anaemic, cachetic,  emaciated  subjects resulting  from  loss  of  fluid or    mental    stress,   emaciation    marked    around    neck.Awkwardness,  abruptness,  irritable,  weeping  disposition which   are   aggravated   by   consolation   and   complaints precipitated  after  grief  are  the  characteristics  mental symptoms.  Desire  for  excessive  salt,  dry,  geographical tongue,  sweats  while  eating  and  aggravation  at  the  sea shore   and   sunlight;   better   in   open   air   are   leading symptoms.]
104.Petroleum-Skin   dry,   constricted,   very   sensitive,   rough,   cracked, leathery.  Psoriasis  of  hands.  Skin  symptoms  worse  in winters.  Itching  worse  at  night,  painful  sensitiveness  of whole body.]
105.Phosphorus-Dandruff,   hair   fall   in   bunches,   formication,   itching, burning,  ecchymosis,  scaly  lesions  over  various  parts  of body,including  eyebrows.  Brown  spots  on  face.  Skin  is fair  and  delicate.  Suited  to tall,  slender,  stoop  shouldered personsof    sanguine    temperament. Very    sensitive, sympathetic,  nervous  and  weepy  with  depressed  spirits, palpitation.Desire  for  juicy,  refreshing,  cold  food  and drinks.]
106.Sepia-Ring  shaped  lesions  on  upper  part  of  body,  appearing  in spring,   itching worse   on   elbows   and   knee,   hyper-pigmented   spots   over   face. Great   sadness,   weeping, indifference  to  loved  ones,  yellow  saddle  across  upper part  of  cheeks  and  nose.  Intolerable,  offensive,  profuse sweat.  Worse  after  washing,  exposure  to  cold  air,  better from    warmth    of    bed,    hot    application    and    violent exercise. ]
107.Staphysagaria-Itching  changing  location  after  scratching,  thick  scabs. Hyper    sensitive    to    mental    impressions,    irritability, Ailments   from   stress   due   to indignation,   insult   and reserved displeasure.]
108.Sulphur-Dirty,   filthy   skin, excessive   burning   all   over,   marked itching,   wants   to   scratch,   burning   after   scratching. Eruptions  dry,  scaly,  pustular,  cracks  and  excoriations  in skin  folds.  Relapsing  complaints.  Lean,  stoop  shouldered and  scrofulous  persons, nervous  temperament,  cannot stand for a long time, marked aversion to bathing.]
109.Allium cepa-Rhinitis  especially  inAugustevery  year; Nasal  discharges watery,  copious,acridand  excoriates  upper  lip  with  bland lacrimation.  Cold  begins  from  right  side  and  travels  to  left. Burning  sensation  in  eyes  as  from  smoke,  must  rub  them. Constant  sneezing  on  entering  warm  room. Canine  hunger; salivation increased,worse: in cold damp weather, in warm room.]
110.Euphrasia-Profuse  acrid  lachrymation  but  bland coryza.  Margins  of eyelids  red,  swollen  and  burning.  Frequent  inclination  to blink. Chilly patient cannot get warm in bed, subjects to cold that  affect  the  eyes, worse: in  evening,  indoors  and  from warmth, better:in open air. ]
111.Nux vomica-Coryza  fluent  in  morning  or  day;  stuffed  up  at  night  and outdoors; or   alternates   between   nostrils;   crawling   and tickling   inside   the   nosewhich   causes   sneezing. Worse:warm   room, better:open   air. Chilly   patient;   thin,   dark complexion;  spare,  quick,  active;  prone  to  indigestion  and hemorrhoids;  sedentary  lifestyle;  tongue  coated  yellowish in   the   posterior   part;   desire   for   stimulants;   nervous disposition;  oversensitive  to  external  impressions,  to  noise, odors,  light  or  music,etc.;  zealous  and  irritable,  impatient, spiteful with violent action; ardent nature.]
112.Dulcamara-Dry   coryza   renewed   by   slightest   exposure,   worse   after getting  wet,  in  the  open  air  and  at  night.  Summer  colds. Running  of  nose,  sneezing  and  nasal  obstruction,worse:in the  rainy  weather,  crawling  and  tickling  inside  the  nose, itching  in  both  eyes  worse  in  open  air. H/o  exposure  to damp, rainy weather or dwelling in the damp place.]
113.Pulsatillanigricans-Coryza withnasal  discharge  thick,  mucopurulent, yellowish or  yellowish-green;  large  green  fetid  scales  in  the  nose; stoppage  of  nose  in  the  evening;  thick  discharge  in  the morning and thin discharge in the evening, nasal discharges bland  and  never  irritating;  loss  of  taste  and  smell.Worse:in warm   room,evening. Better:in   open   air; Hot   patient, marked   changeability   of   symptoms;   thirstlessnesswith great  dryness  of  mouth,  tongue  coated  yellow  or  whitish; discharges   thick,   bland,   and   yellowish-green,   worse   in evening  and  warm  room,  better  from  open  air,  by  slow, gentle  motion  and  cold  applications.;  desires  for  company, mild, gentle, affectionate, yielding, weeping disposition.] 
114.Chamomilla-Congestion of the nasal mucosa, thin, watery, bland, copious discharge  with  occasional  sneezing, worse: at  night,  open air. Fever  with  irritability,  restless,  crying  always,  easily annoyed, betterby carrying.Capricious, irritable, quarrelsome,   nothing   pleases.   Asks   for   something   then rejects  it.  Sensitive  to  pain,  moaning  and  frenzied;  Better when  carried.  Chilly  patient,  complaints  during  dentition. One cheek red, other pale, hot, thirsty for cold drinks. Worse evening, until midnight.]
115.Hepar sulphuris-Extremely   chilly   patient,   hypersensitive   (to   cold,   pain), faints easily, Yellowish acrid, scanty, nasal discharge,worse: in  cold,  uncovering, better: by  warm,  heat  sneezing,  nasal obstruction, itching in throat with fever.Sensitive, Irritable, difficult to please.]
116.Mercurius solubilis-Discharge watery yellowish, acrid, sneezing, nasal blockage.All symptoms are worse at night, from warmth of bed, from damp,   cold,   rainy   weather,worse   during   perspiration. Sensitive   to   change   of   temperature,   profuse   offensive perspiration, tongue flabby with imprint of teeth, increased salivation,  increased  thirst.  Fearful,  shy,  hurried,  violent, impulsive, weak memory,nervous and irresolute.]
117.Kalium bichromicum-Sneezing    worse    in    early    morning    nasal    obstruction, yellowish, stringy, sticky nasal discharge.Chilly patient, susceptible to cold, fat, chubby, short necked, shifting    pains,    complaints    occurring    in    hot weather, aversion and intolerance to meat, desires sour things.]
117.Arsenicum album-Thin,  watery,  irritating  discharges  from  nose,  stuffed  nose with  frequent  sneezing,  worse  in  open  air.Winter  colds.Anxiety,    anguish    and    restless.    Chilly    patient,    rapid disproportionate  prostration,  increased  thirst,  drinks  often but little at a time.]
118.Sabadilla-Coryza,  with  severe  frontal  pains  and  redness  of  eyes  and lachrymation.Copious,  watery,  nasal  discharge.Spasmodic sneezing,  with  running  nose. Worse: from  cold  and  cold drinks. Better: from warm food and drink, wrapped up.]
119.Arum triphyllum-Coryza, acrid nasal discharges with raw nostrils andupper  lip.Constantly  boring  and  picking  at  the  nose  or  lip until  it  bleeds;  although  the  child  screams  but  continues tobore the nose.Raw and sore throat; painful on clearing or coughing.  Cold  associated  with  aphthae  and  cracked  sore cornersof   mouth.   Sneezing, worse:at   night.   Nose   feels stopped in spite of watery discharges.]
120.Arsenicum iodatum-Coryzaburning   and   acrid. Thin,   watery,   irritating   and excoriating  discharges  fromanterior  and  posterior  nares.Irritation   and   tingling   in   nose   with   constant   desire   tosneeze,  which  aggravates.Marked  itching  and  burning  in nose. Worse:from tobacco; smoke.Better: in open air.]
121.Kalium iodatum-Red,  swollen.  Tip  of  nose  red;  profuse,  acrid,  hot,  watery, thin discharge.Accumulation of very tenacious mucus in the throat. Worse  from  heat,  night  damp,  changing  weather, cold air. Better:open air.]
122.Belladonna-Affected  fromthrobbing frontal  right  side  headachewith congestion of face which is characterized by Sudden, violent effects,  bright  redness,  burning  heat,  throbbing  pains, appear and disappear suddenly.Adapted to sensitive and nervousperson. Bell Patient worse in afternoon(3 p.m.), drafts,   washing   head,aftertaking   cold.   Better:   light covering, rest in bed, better in bending backward.]
123.Nux vomica-Stuffy  coldsafter  exposure  to  dry,  cold  atmosphere. Nux  patient  worse  in  warm  room.  Stuffed  up,  at night   especially.Odors   tend   to   produce   fainting. Coryza:  fluent  in  daytime;  stuffed  up  at  night  and outdoors;  or  alternates  between  nostrils.  Bleeding in  morning.  Acrid  discharge,  but  with  stuffed  up feeling.Frontal   headachewith   desire   to   press   the head    against    something.Adapted    to    nervous disposition,    spare,quick,    active,    zealous    and irritable, impatient, spiteful with violent action.]
124.Pulsatilla-Found   useful   in   maxillary,   frontal   and   fronto-maxillary     sinusitis.Nasal     obstruction, worse indoors   and   better   inopen   air.Headache,   shifting type,character of discharge may be  thick, purulent, greenish    yellow    catarrh.Low    grade    fever    with chilliness  and  thirstlessness.  Patient  will  be worse n  evening  and  warm  roomand better  from  fresh air.Pulsatilla    patient    is mild,    gentle,    affectionate, yielding,     weepy,     clingy,     and     whiney.Changeable moods. Needs attention and reassurance.]
125.Hepar sulphuricum-Sinusitis  of  allergic  origin  with  patient  being  very sensitive  to  cold.  Acute  sinusitis  (frontal  /  fronto-maxillary)  becoming  chronic  with  the  passage  of time.   Allergic rhinitis,   sneezing   culminating   into sinusitis.  Patient  worse  in  dry,  cold  air,  better  in damp   weather.Adapted   to   irritable,   difficult   to pleaseextremely   chilly   patient,   hypersensitive   to cold, pain, faints easily, sweats easily.]
126.Natrum muriaticum-Chronic  fronto-maxillary  sinusitis  withsupraorbital headache,  commencing  in  themorning  around  9-10 a.m.and  increases  with  sun.Bouts  of  sneezing  and lachrymation.Pain   worse   from   reading,   laughing and    mentalexertion.Better    in    Open    air,    Cool bathing, Sweating.Natrum mur patient is melancholic,    sad,irritable,    cross.    Disposition    to weep without cause, consolation aggravates.]
127.Kali bichromicum-Frontal sinusitis with pain in supraorbital region or inner  canthi  of  both  the  eyes  and  at  the  root  of  the nose.  Postnasal  catarrh  exciting  cough,  discharge from   nose  relatively   scanty  but  sticky,  purulent, yellow.Chilly   patient,   susceptible   to   cold,shifting pains,  complaints  occurring  in  hot  weather,worse from  cold,  damp,  open  air,  morning,  after  sleep,2-3 a.m.Better from heat, motion.Adapted to indolent,aversion to mental and physical labor.]
128.Lachesis-Left     sided     chronic     maxillary     sinusitis,     nasal obstruction    causing    choking    at    night.    Highly offensive  muco-purulent  nasal  discharge  from  left nostril. Sometimes discharge is blood stained.Mentally  patient  is  loquacious,  jumps  from one idea to another, jealous, suspicious, indolent.Other symptoms are Hot patient, emaciated,  hemorrhagic  diathesis,  great  sensitive to     touch,     hot     flushes     and     perspiration,     all complaints are worse after sleep.]
129.Calcarea sulphuricum-Chronic   sinusitis   with   thick   yellow,   lumpy,   and bloody  discharge.Tendency  to  suppuration.Mucous discharges  are  yellow,  thick  and  lumpy.  Recurrent or running abscesses. Better from open air, bathing, eating,  local  heat,  uncovering.  Worse  from  drafts touch, cold, wet, heat of room.]
130.Natrum arsenicum-Catches   cold   frequently. Often   used   as   specific medicine  in  case  ofsinusitis.Prescribedin  chronic sinusitis   with   nasalobstruction,   resulting   in   post nasal  catarrh,  thedischargebeing  yellowish,  muco-purulent withinvolvement ofpharynx i.e. pharyngeal congestion.Worse in damp cold weather.Easily  excited,  Mental  exertion  makes  the symptoms worse.]
131.Mercurius solubilis-Frontal   sinusitis,   pain   worse   at   night   with   nasal obstruction.  Fever  associated  with  sweat,  chilliness, worse  at  night.Pain  and  swelling  of  nasal  bones,  and caries,   with   greenish   fetid   ulceration.Sensitiveto change  of  temperature,  profuse  offensive  perspiration, tongue flabby with imprint of teeth, increased salivation, increased  thirst.  All  symptoms  are worse  at  night,  from warmth  of  bed,  from  damp,  cold,  rainy  weather,worse during   perspiration.Mentally patients   is   fearful,   shy, hurried,  violent,  impulsive,  weak  memory,  nervous  and irresolute.]
132.Silicea-Nasal   bone   painful   when   touched,   in   nasal   bones soreness  as  if  beaten.Gnawing  pains  (and  ulcers)  in upper part of nose, with heaviness when stooping, and excessive     sensibility     to     contact     and     pressure. Uncovering the head aggravates catarrhal symptomsand  those  pertaining  to  head.Extremely chilly   patient, profuse   offensive   discharges.   Sweat profuse especially on feet, easy suppuration, glandular affinity,   large   head   and   distended   abdomen.Silicea patient is Obstinate, headstrong, nervous, oversensitive, irritable and fearful.]
133.Sanguinaria canadensis-Ozæna,  with  profuse,  offensive  yellowish  discharges may  be   associated  with  nasal  polyp.Periodical  sick headache;  pain  begins  in  occiput,  spreads  upwards, and  settles  over  eyes,  especially  right.  Worse  from with  sun,  weekly,night,Climaxis,odors.Is  a  right-sided remedy  pre-eminently,  and  affects  chiefly  the  mucous membranes, especially of the respiratory tract.]
134.Spigelia-Stoppage  and  dryness  of  anterior  nose,  with  copious discharge    of   whitish   and   yellowish    mucus   from posterior    nares.    Frequent    sneezing;    discharge    of bloody  mucus  which  is  at  one  time  white,  at  another time  yellow,  is  discharged  from  nose.Worse:touch,jar, periodically,  with  the  sun,better:lying  on  r.  side,  with head high.]
135.Gelsemium-Sneezing;  fullness  at  root  of  nose.Dryness  of  nasal fossæ,swelling of turbinates,watery, excoriating discharge.  Acute  coryza,  with  dull  headache  and  fever may   be   associated   with Heaviness   of   head;   band-feeling around and occipital headache.Worse fromweather,   spring,   foggy,   humid,   muggy,   heat   of summer.]
136.Tuberculinum-Increased  secretion  of  mucus,  with  frontal  headache secretion of mucus from nose, viscid, yellow-green.The nose,  which  used  to  feel  "hot  and  burning,"  has  lost this    sensation.Worse:close    room,    weather:    damp (cold),   before   a   storm;   standing; dampness;   from draught;  early  morning,  and  after  sleep.  Better,  open air.]
137.Hydrastis canadensis-Constant   discharge   of   thick   white   mucus;   frontal headache.Secretion  runs  more  from posterior  nares, thick  and  tenaciousDull,  heavy  frontal  headacheover eyes;  catarrhal.Worse:  air,  inhaling,  cold,  dry  winds, open.]
138.Sticta-pulmonaria-Pressure  or  stuffy  fullness  at  root  of  nose;  blows  it without   relief.Constant   need   to   blow   nose,   but   no result  on  account  of  dryness.  Excessive  and  painful dryness  of  mucous  membrane;  secretions  dry  rapidly, forming  scabs  difficult  to  dislodge.Worse:  night,  lying down,change  of  temperature  better:free  discharges, open air.]
139.Cinnabaris-Nose;  heavy  pressure  at  root;  <  pressure  of  glasses; discharges  foul,  acrid,  burning  serum  or  dark  lumps. Dry  mouth,  wakes  from  sleep.  Hawks  down  stringy mucus   or   lumps   of   mucus   drop   from   posterior nares.Naso-pharyngeal catarrh.worse:Touch, light, Dampness. Better:open air, sunshine.]
140.Aurum met.-Nose ulcerated, painful, swollen, obstructed. Inflammation of nose; caries; fetid discharge, purulent, bloody.Boring   pains   in   nose.   Putrid   smell   from nose.worse:  cold,  Night,  Sunset  to  sunrise,  abuse  of merc. Or  kali-iod.  Cloudy  weather.Better  from  open air, cold bathing.]
141.Belladonna-Indicated  in  acute  renal  colic  which  causes  spasmodic,  crampy pains;  straining  along  the  ureter  as  far  as  the  bladder. Pains;  of maddening severity;coming and going, in repeated attacks.Pain as if  clutched  by  hand;  <  jar,  pressure.  Extreme  sensitiveness  to touch,  bedclothes.  Colicky  pains  comes  quickly  and  goes  quickly; >bending   double   or   bending   backward;   also>   lying   on   the abdomen. Urine is scanty with tenesmus; dark and turbid, loaded with phosphates. Urine may even be frequent and profuse. Suited to plethoric persons with red face; and to conditions where there  is  local  plethora.Tendency  to  be  chilled  easily,  with  great sensibility  to  cold  air.  Internal  coldness  with  external,pungent, burning  heat. Belladonna  always  is  associated  with  hot,  red  skin, flushed face, glaring eyes, throbbing carotids, excited mental state, hyperæsthesia  of  all  senses,  delirium,  restless  sleep,  convulsive movements, dryness of mouth and throat with aversion to water.]
142.Berberis vulgaris-Indicated  when  there  is  pain  in  small  of  back;  very  sensitive  to touch  in  renal  region;  <  when  sitting  and  lying,  from  jar,  from fatigue.  Burning  and  soreness  in  region  of  kidneys.  Numbness, stiffness,  lameness  with  painful  pressure  in renal  and  lumbar regions.Stitching, cutting pain from left kidney following course of ureter into bladder and urethra. Renal colic. < left side with urging and   strangury.   Rubbing   sensation   in   kidneys.Urine:   greenish, blood-red,  with  thick,  slimy  mucus;  transparent,  reddish  or  jelly-like sediment. The emission of urine is frequently accompanied by pains in thighs and loins.Movement brings on or increases urinary complaints.Of   value   in   persons   with   hepatic   and   rheumatic   affections, particularly with urinary, hæmorrhoidal and menstrual complaints.Persons  with  pale,  earthy  complexion,  with  sunken cheeks and hollow, blue-encircled eyes.Worse motion, walking or carriage riding; any sudden jarring movement. ]
143.Pulsatillanigricans-Pressure in abdomen and small of back as from a stone.Colic, with chilliness  in  the  evening. Increased  desire;  <  when  lying  down. Burning    in    urethral    orifice,    during    and    after    micturition. Involuntary  micturition  at  night,  while  coughing  or  passing  flatus. After  micturating,spasmodic  pain  in  the  bladder.     Sensation  of  a stone rolling in the bladder. Urine passes only in dropsand stream interrupted. Urine watery, colorless; brown, bloody. Suitable  formild,  timid, peevish,  tearful, emotional  and sensitive persons.  Symptoms  are  changeful  &  shifting. Chilly, yet  averse  to heat;    in    a    warm    room;withthepain;    on    lying    down    at night.Thirstlessnesswith   dryness   of   mouth.   Better   open   air, consolation. ]
144.Sulphur-This  drug  is  of  value  when  there  is  a  fullness,  heaviness,  tension, and  pressure,  as  if  from  stone  in  abdomen,  chiefly  in  epigastrium and hypochondria. Violent pain in region of kidneys after stooping a  long  time.  Aching  in  small  of  back  all  day,  esp.<while  urinating. Frequent   urination,   esp   at   night.   Burning   in   urethra   during micturition,  lasts  long  after.  Mucus  and  pus  in  urine;  parts  sore over  which  it  passes.  Must  hurry,  sudden  call  to  urinate.  Great quantities of colorless urine. Suitable  for  nervous,  quick  tempered,  emotionally  irritable  and sluggishpersons.Hot  patient,  dirty  filthy,  lean  thin, with stoop shoulders.Sinking feeling   at   stomach   about   11   a.m.Local throbbing, burning or congestion; soles; vertex is seen in this drug. Ebullitions ofheat, red orifices; dry skin and hair, dislike for water. Complaints   that   relapse.   Offensive   discharges   and   exhalations. Worse  morning,  standing, at  rest,  warmth  of  bed,  bathing.    Better dry, warm weather, lying on right side. ]
145.Lycopodium clavatum-Indicated  in  kidney  affections.  Pain  in  the  back  before  urinating; ceases  after  flow. Renal  colic  in  ureter  to  bladder Urine  slow  in coming;  must  strain. Urine  scanty;person criesbeforeurinating.Polyuriaat   night.Hematuria   from   gravel   or   chronic   catarrh. Frequent urging to urinate, > riding in cars, etc.. Red sand in urine. Acrid urineUrine milky, turbid. Sensitive,    intelligent, dominating, dictating    and headstrong. Peevish  and  depressed  in  mind. Miserly  and  coward.  Irritable, contradiction aggravates. Adapted toold persons or children who age prematurely    and    have    a weak    body    but    sharp    mind(intellectually keen but bodily weak). Great weakness of digestion,Eating   ever   so   little   creates   fullness.Earthly   complexion   and yellowish   spots   on   skin   with   or   without vertical   furrows   on forehead.  Desire  sweets, warm  drinks.  Aversion  to  breads. All complaints  <  4-8pm  Better:  warm  drinks,  food,  cold  applications, eructation, urinating.]
146.Sarsaparilla-Suitableforpersonswithtendency to gravel. Renal colic; pain from right kidney downward. Tenesmus of bladder; urine passes in thin feeble    stream.    Can    pass    urine    only    when    standing.    Gassy urine.Crusty  urinary  sediment; deposit  in  the  urine  which  looks like  grey  sand.Urine  is  high-coloured  with  lithates,  enuresis  day and  night. Indicated in gloomy,  ill-humoured, thinfrail,  shrivelled and  old  looking  patients.Worse  at  the  close  of  urination,  cold  etc. Better standing.]
147.Terebinthina-The  remedy  has  a  selective  affinity  for  mucous  membranes  of  the kidneys.   Affections   of   kidneys   and rheumatism.Sensation   of heaviness   and   pain   in   region   of   kidneys.Inflamed   kidneys following   any   acute   disease.Burningor   pain   along   ureters.Burning   sensation,   incisive   pains,   and   spasmodic   tenesmus   of bladder.Urine;smoky;  with coffee grounds or  thick, yellow, slimy, muddy  sediment;  odor  of  violets;bloody."Drowsy  with  retention of  urine."Smooth,  glossy,  red  tongue,  as  if  deprived  of  papillæ.With    cystitis    and    uro-genital    and    rectal    troubles    there    is sensitiveness of hypogastrium and pains in symphysis pubis. Pains alternate between navel and bladder, > walking. Worse dampness, night, lying, when urinating. Better motion, stooping, walking. ]
148.Pulsatillanigricans-Suitable   in   females   who   suffer   from   tardy   menses. These women   have   delayed   first   menstruation   and   suffer   from derangements at puberty. Menses:too late, scanty, slimy, thick, dark,clotted, changeable,   irregular,intermittent. Menstrual flowwith  evening  chilliness;  nausea  and  downward  pressure.  Uterine  troubles  with  heavy  pressive  pain  in  abdomen  and small  of  back;  as  from  a  stone;  limbs  go  to  sleep;  ineffectual urging  to  stool. Mensessuppressed  from  getting  feet  wet; nervous debility or chlorosis.  Desire  company,  mild,  gentle,  affectionate,  yielding,  weeping disposition.Hot  patient;  marked  changeability;  thirstlessness with   great   dryness   of   mouth. Desire   for   cheese,   pungent things,  highly  seasoned  food;  aversion  to  fat,  warm  foods  and drinks;   tongue   coated   yellow   or   whitish;   worse   towards evening  and  in  the  warm  room,  always  better  in  open  air,  by slow, gentle motion and cold applications.]
149.Sepia officinalis-Indicated   in   women   who   suffer   from irregular   menses   of nearly every form -early, late, scanty, profuse, amenorrhoea or menorrhagia. Violent  stitches  upward  in  the  vagina;  pains from the uterus to the umbilicus. Associated symptoms include weakness  of  the  female  sexual  organs  and  prolapseof  uterus withsensation  ofpressure  and  bearing  down  as  if  everything would  protrude  from  pelvis;  must  cross  limbs  tightly  to  "sit close" and cross her limbs to prevent protrusion of the parts. Persons  who  are sad,  indifferent  even  to  loved  ones,  irritable, indolent  and quarrelsome.Chilly  patient;  predisposed  to  take cold  at  the  change  of  weather;  thin  built  with  narrow  pelvis; yellow  saddle  across  nose;  past  history  of  repeated  abortions; sudden prostration with sinking faintness with all complaints; offensive sweat; desire for vinegar, acids, pickles and sour, but sour   food   aggravates. Aggravated   after   laundry   work   and better by warmth of bed, after violent exercise.]
150.Calcarea carbonica-Suitable   for   females who   suffer   from   premature   and   too copious  menses. Pale  blood;  blood  too  thick  and  of  strong odour. Mensestoo  early,  too  profuse,  too  long,  with  vertigo, toothache  andcold,  damp  feet;  the  least  excitement  causes their   return. Menorrhagia,   burning   across   sacrum,   passive flow. Indicated  in  torpid,  fair,  flabby,  anaemic  persons  with  large head, distended abdomen and tendency to lymphatic glandular enlargement;  fearful,  shy,  timid,  slow  and  sluggish;  who  are chilly  and  take  cold  easily;  sweat  profusely  on  head  while sleeping  or  mostly  on  back  of  head  and  neck,  or  chest  and upper part of body; have sour smelling discharges; longing for fresh  air,  cold  sweaty  extremities,  desire  for  eggs,  sweets  and aversion  to  meat  and  milk.  Feel  better  in  every  way  when constipated and have desire to be magnetized.]
151.Aurum muriaticum natronatum-Burnett  considers that   this   remedy  hasmore   power  over uterine  tumours  than  any  other  gold  preparation.Indicated when there is induration of one part, softening of another part of  theuterus.  Inflammation  of  the  uterus  filling  the  whole pelvis,  interfering  with  the  action  of  the  bowels  and  bladder. Menses are profuse and premature. The  patient  suffers  from  characteristic  boring  pains  in  parts which   are worseat rest; Symptomsin   general <cold   wet weather, <by rest. ]
152.Natrum muriaticum-Suitable  in  persons  with  irregular,  usually  profuse  menses. Mensespreceded   and   followed   by   headache.    Hot   during menses.  History  of  delayed  appearance  of  menses. Associated bearing-down pains; worse in morning; > lying on back; has to sit up to prevent prolapse. Hot  patient;  poorly  nourished;  great  emaciation  (marked  on neck);  losing  flesh  while  eating  well;  oily,  greasy  face;craving for   salt;   aversion   to   bread   and   fatty   things;   constipated; increased  thirst;  mapped  tongue  with  red  insular  patches; difficult speech, children slow in learning to walk; melancholic, sad,   plays   alone,   irritable,   cross,   cries   when   spoken   to; awkward,    hasty,    drops    things    from    nervous    weakness; disposition to weep without cause, consolation aggravates.]
153.Phosphorus-Menses  are  too  early  and  scanty-not  profuse,but prolonged. Frequent and profuse metrorrhagia. Weeps before menses.These  persons  suffer  from  slight  hæmorrhage  from uterus between periods.Nervous persons, oversensitive to external impressions –light, noise,  touch,  odour,  etc;  desire  to  be  magnetized  and  those who   have   anxiety   especially   during   thunderstorm. Chilly patients;  tall,  slender,  narrow  chested;  have  a  craving  for  salt and cold water.]
154.Arsenicum album-Skin  dry,  rough,  and  scaly <  cold  and  scratching. The lesion  may  also  have  itching  or  burning,  oedema, redness. General   tendency   to   pick   at   roughened places   in   the   skin   until they   bleed.   White,   pasty looking skin.Suitable  for  persons  with  anxiety  with  fear  of  death; Restlessness  with tossing  about in  agony. Fastidious and   oversensitive   patients. Chilly   patient   but   wants head  uncovered. Great  debility  and  prostration. Mid-day, mid-nightand  periodical  aggravation.  Worse  cold: food, drinks, air, damp weather. Better: hot applications,  warm  drinks,  wrapping  up, in  company and while sweating.]
155.Calcarea carbonica-Skin  is  unhealthy  readily  ulcerating;  flaccid.  Small wounds   donot   heal   quickly.   Milky   white   spots. Tendency to chilblains.  Adapted  to  apprehensive  fearful (fear  of  night,  dark, alone  strangers),  sluggish, obstinate,  mischievous  and irritable    persons    having    anxiety    withpalpitation.Sensitive  to  noise, and  averse  to  work  or  exertion. Fat, flabby persons with easy   and   profuse perspiration, which  is  cold,  damp  and  sour.  Suited  to  persons  with blond  hair,  light  complexion,  blue  eyes,  fair  skin,and distended   abdomen   with   thin   extremities.Chilliness with internal  coldness who get  cold  easily.  Desirefor undigested food like chalk, coal, pencil, sweets, eggs and aversion to  boiled  food  and  meatwith intolerance  to milk.  Character  of  discharges  are  yellowish,  greenish thick   or   thin   <   from   physical   and   mental   exertion.Worse  from  cold,  bathing, morning;  during  full  moon. Better in dry weather; lying on painful side.]
156.Lycopodium clavatum-Skin,dry,shrunken,especiallypalms;hair becomes prematurely gray.Skin becomesthickandindurated.Violent itching worse on warm applications.Offensive secretions;viscid and offensive perspiration,especially off eetandaxilla.Sensitive, intelligent, dominating, dictating and headstrong.  Peevish  and  depressed  in  mind. Miserly and coward. Irritable, contradiction aggravates. Adapted    toold    persons    or    children    who    age prematurely  and  have  a weak  body  but  sharp  mind(intellectually     keen     but bodily weak). Personspredisposed to gastric affections.Earthly complexion and yellowish spots on skin with or without vertical  furrows  on  forehead.  Desire  sweets, warm  drinks.  Aversion  to  breads. All  complaints  <  4-8pm    Better:    warm    drinks,    food,    cold    applications, eructation, urinating.]
157.Natrum muriaticum-Greasy,  oily,  especially  on  hairy  parts.  Dry  eruptions on   margin   of   hairy   scalps.   Itch   and   burn,   crusty eruptions  in  bends  of  limbs,  margin  of  scalp  behind ears. Alopecia.Awkwardness, abruptness, irritable, weeping disposition which are aggravated by consolation and complaints precipitated after grief are the characteristics  mental  symptoms. Anaemic,  cachetic, emaciated  subjects resulting  from  loss  of  fluid  or mental   stress,   emaciation   marked   around   neck.Desire  for  excessive  salt,  dry,  geographical  tongue, sweats while eating and aggravation at the sea shore and    sunlight;    better    in    open    air    are    leading symptoms.]
158.Phosphorus-Brown   spots   on   face.   Skin   is   fair   and   delicate. Tendency  for  dandruff  and  hairfall  in  bunches;  loss of  sensation  and  formication.  Itching  and  burning better by cold applications. Suited  to  very  sensitive,  sympathetic,  nervous  and weepy    with    depressed    spirits,    palpitation.    Tall, slender,    stoop    shouldered    personsof    sanguine temperament. Haemorrhagic     diathesis;     burning pains;   weak   empty   all   gone   sensation   in   various parts  of  the  body. Desire  for  juicy,  refreshing,  cold food and drinks.]
159.Sepia officinalis-Itching of skin; of various parts; of external genitalia; is > scratching;  and  is  apt  to  change  to  burning, not  relieved by   scratching;   worse   in   bends   of   elbows   and   knees. Chloasma.  Ring  shaped  eruption  on  upper  part  of  the bodywhich    appears    every    spring.    Spots    on    skin. Indurations  from  constant  pressure.    Skin  blotched;  raw, rough,hard and cracked; <flexures.Indicated  in  chilly  patients;  predisposed  to  take  cold  at the  change  of  weather;  thin  built  with  narrow  pelvis; yellow   saddle   across   nose;   past   history   of   repeated abortions; sudden prostration with sinking faintness with all  complaints;  offensive  sweat;  desire  for  vinegar,  acids, pickles  and  sour,  but  sour  food  aggravates;  aversion  to food;   sad,   indifferent   even   to   loved   ones,   irritable, indolent and quarrelsome.Aggravated after laundry work and better by warmth of bed, after violent exercise.]
160.Sulphur-Dirty,  filthy  skin,  excessiveburning  all  over,  marked itching,  wants  to  scratch,  burning  after  scratching. Eruptions dry, scaly, pustular, cracks and excoriations in skin folds. Relapsing complaints. Suitable  to quick  motioned,  quick  tempered,irritablepersons     who     are mentally egoistic,     dwellon philosophical     and     religious     speculations(ragged philosopher). Lean,  stoop  shouldered  and  scrofulous persons, nervous  temperament,  cannot  stand  for  a long  time,  marked  aversion  to  bathing. Hot  patients who desire   sweets   and in   whom milk disagrees. Aggravation  from  rest,  warmth  of  the  bed,  washing, 11am,  night,  early  morning,  standing.  Amelioration  dry warm   weather   lying   on   right   side,   drawing   limbs. Burning  all  over  the  body  especially  in  all  the  orifices e.g.  nose,  ear,  rectum  vagina,  urethra  etc.;  flushes  of heat on face.]
161.Arsenicum album 30-It is used in treatment against influenza like illness. It is prophylactic medicine against infections. It is extensively used to prevent influenza. To be specific it is used in treatment as well as precaution in COVID(corona) group of viruses.]